.

EPILOGUE

												   	Reflecting on our lives we remember all the good things and the fun things of the past.  The birthday parties through the years, particularly those first birthdays on which a birthday cake was always destroyed.  The Christmases and the expressions of surprise on the childrens' faces.  The vacation trips we made - some great, some not so great.  The cars that we bought through the years.  Each car was special to us, although until 1968 all were "used".  Our first "new" car was a 1968 Pontiac Tempest, not air-conditioned, and with vinyl upholstered seats, which were like ice in the Winter and blistering hot in the Summer.  We've never had a car with vinyl seats since.

												We remember the good times we had enjoying the children and their activities.  The Knothole Baseball, the Cub Scout and Boy Scout activities with Jay.  Norma's activities as Den Mother.  Mine as Assistant Scout Master.  Patty, Jenny and Susan were all in the Brownies with the Girl Scouts.  Our activities with Junior Achievement and the manufacturing and selling of the products.  The music lessons; accordion for Jay and piano with Patty, Jenny and Mary Lou, and the transporting of the children to their lesson.   Mary Lou was the only one to persue her lessons through High School and College  The ballet lessons and dance recitals with Susan, and her activities as a Cheerleader at St. Vivian School.  The art lessons on Saturday morning with Patty and Jenny, with Jenny exhibiting the talent to persue her artistry through college.  Our dog that followed the Mailman,  who had to return her to us almost every day.  The cat that used to sleep on the top basement step, making a tripping hazard.  The gerbils that liked to exercise at night in the wheel in the cage, which wheel had to be oiled in the wee hours of the morning.  The gold fish and the tropical fish, and the sometimes leaking aquarium.  Those were the good times, and we hope that the children enjoyed them as much as we did.														We tried to rear our children the best we could.  We are proud of each one of them, and equally proud of their accomplishments.  We hope that they, individually are proud of us, and appreciate what we have done for them.  There are things that we wish we could do over again.  Possibly we should have spent more time with them, one on one, but that is past and possibly our children would have learned from our mistakes



	I wish that I had spent more time with all of our children, explaining to them the value of money, and just where our family income went.  I did not receive an "allowance" from my parents as a child (nor did my brothers).  It was just not done in the days of the Great Depression.  As a result our children did not receive an allowance as many of their contemporaries probably did.  I am sorry for this, and therefore we did not teach them the importance of budgeting money.  I did not impress on them the necessity of saving, or investing money for the future.  I should have preached the age old philosophy of "pay yourself first".  If we had not practiced this, we would not be living as comfortably as we do.  I thank my parents for that.								Although we were not what you would call poor, neither were we rich.  We adopted a philosophy early in our married life that we would save something from our income regularly.  We were fairly successful with this.  We would ask ourselves before most major purchases, "Is this a want or a need?"  If it was only a want and not a "need" it was not normally purchased.  This was the reason that we did not purchase a "new" car until after we were married for over twenty years.  A new car was a "want", but a "used" car was a "need".  It seems that in today's society, so much is interpreted to be a "need".    												We are proud that each of our children attained his or her initial goal.  Jay graduating with a degree in architecture and obtaining his registration.  Patty obtaining her nursing degree and registration.  Jenny with a degree in fashion design and now an independent business woman in fashion illustration.  Susan securing her degree in theater arts and currently Director of Development with the Monterey County Symphony Orchestra.  Mary Lou pursuing her degree in medicine and now thoroughly involved in her practice in Wilmington, Ohio.					                                                                                                    	                                                                                                                                      	I have seen so much progress in my life that it is difficult to comprehend.  Travel across our country has been made pleasurable with the development of the interstate highway system.  Before the interstate system, we drove a very tiring eight hours to visit my parents in Cleveland.  Now the driving time is about four hours in a much more comfortable car,  And the amenities on  automobiles today make driving a pleasure - automatic transmission, air conditioning, power brakes, power steering, cruise control, and power windows were unheard of fifty years ago.																	The development in air travel in the past fifty years is unbelievable.  I have seen the airplane grow from the Ford Tri-motor, or Tin Goose, which was slow, noisy, and uncomfortable (compared to today) and carried about twenty passengers; to the fast comfortable jet airliners of today.  These planes carry more than 300 passengers, and trans-oceanic flights are commonplace.																			Who would have thought that we could place a man (or men) on the moon; or have people living in space, for months at a time.																		The development of television has been phenomenal, from the small screen "black and white", with sporadic programming to the large screen color sets today, with twenty four hour programming, and with an unbelievable selection of programs.  And of course your reception is no longer through the air waves through an antenna perched on your chimney, but through a cable directly to your set.  The technology keeps expanding   with seemingly no end in sight.																				The telephone has grown from one 'phone in every four houses, to at least two 'phones in each household.  From a "party line" to a private line for everyone.  From having an "operator" reach your party, to rotary dial, to touch tone dialing.  And then there is the cordless 'phone to be used within your house, to the cellular 'phone that can be used anywhere.										   												Remember, we were born before penicillin and polio shots.  Before radar, split atoms and laser beams.  Before ball-point pens, dish washers, clothes dryers, and electric blankets.  Before drip dry clothes.  Before day care centers, and nursing homes.  Pizzas, "McDonalds", and instant coffee were unheard of.  We remember when there were 5 and 10 cent stores where you actually bought things for five and ten cents.  When you could ride a street car, make a phone call, or buy a Pepsi for a nickel.  You could even buy an ice cream cone for five cents; and during the Great Depression, an ice cream cone was three dips for that same nickel.  Its nice to reminisce, but don't give me the "good old days". I'll take today.																						I never thought that I would ever use, much less comprehend a computer, but here I am using one to process this document.  I still don't comprehend it, and I guess it doesn't comprehend me, since it seems to have a mind of its own.  Computer technology is developing so rapidly that obsolescence is planned into its design.															One can't imagine living in a time of more rapidly developing technologies.  Living through an era in which luxuries develop into necessities, necessities grow into obsolescence, and the obsolete become nostalgic.  It has been a great life, and I would hope that, together, Norma and I could live it to the fullest for as long as we are able.    																																											August 10, 1998
