John J. Reese
8444 Foxcroft Drive
Cincinnati, OH 45231
Dr. and Mrs. Donald E. Reese
615 Skylark Drive
Rockford, IL 61107


March 31,2005												     Dear Margaret and Don,



We are enclosing a copy of the death notice for Aunt Ginny. We are also enclosing a memorial card from her visitation.



As you know, Susan was in over the Easter weekend  from California. Unfortunately her plane departure was the same day as the funeral. We were able to get to the visitation at Little Flower Church, before leaving for the airport. We told Ron that we were going to try to get back in time for the procession to the cemetery. The weather was absolutely awful, pouring down rain almost all day. The spray from the trucks on the interstate didn't help either. Anyhow we did get Susan to the airport (of course all you can do today is drop people off, since you can't go to the gates). We drove back to the church, and fortunately we made it in time to join the procession to the St. Joseph Cemetery Mausoleum. The service at the cemetery was very nice. We spent some time talking with cousins ( Ron and Carole Dauwe, Bob and Corlee Dauwe, Jeanne Pick, and Dick and Judy Beck) They all said to tell you all hello. Its a shame you only see these people at weddings and funerals.



We had a great time with Susan's visit. We attended Good Friday Services together at St. Vivian Church. On Saturday Jenny joined us for a visit to the Conservatory and the Easter display in Eden Park, spent some time at Newport on the Levee, before going to the revolving restaurant on the top of the Marriot in Covington. Had a great dinner, with an interesting, but cloudy view.



Th whole gang was here for Easter Dinner ( we don't know how much longer we can do this). Mary Alice was not feeling too well, so she and Jay were not here, but all others were. Because of the weather we had our Easter Egg Hunt indoors. We think Susan had as much fun hiding the eggs as the kids did trying to find them.



Hope everything is going well for you. Thank you very much for the very nice Easter card. Hope your weather is as delightful as ours is today.  Wish it could have been like this on Easter.																														Love,
