MEMOIR OF JOHN J. REESE



	.

CHILDHOOD



I was born November 1, 1921, son of Charles H. Reese  (aka Carl E. Reese) and  Eleonor (Beck) Reese.  I was born in the home of my maternal grandmother, Elizabeth (Gecks) Beck, at 3925 Llewellyn Street in the area of Cincinnati known as Cumminsville.  My mother was attended at birth by a midwife, which was most common in those days. My brother Charles H. Reese, Jr. was also born at the same address through the aid of a midwife.  My youngest brother, Donald E. Reese was the only one of us born in a hospital.  His birth occurred at Good Samaritan Hospital in the area of Cincinnati called Clifton.

											My parents purchased their first house shortly after marriage.  The house was new and at 324 Westview Avenue in Lockland , Ohio.  Lockland was (is) a village north of Cincinnati..  It was not large, since one could walk easily from one side to the other in about one half hour.  The village was almost divided from north to south by the then Miami-Erie Canal, and was bordeered on the east and west sides by railroads. On the east side was what was then the New York Central Railroad, and on the west the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad.  Almost in the center of town was a set of locks controlling the elevation and flow of the canal.  This is how the town, Lockland, was named: the land of the locks. Lockland was primartily an industrial community. There were a number of manufacturing plants such as the Richardson Paper Co., the Fox Paper Co., Security Bag, the Phillip Carey Co., the Sterns and Foster Matress Co plus some smaller industries. Many of these industries settled in the area because of the canal, its transportation access, and availability of water. Many of these industries required vast quantities of water for manufacturing processes. My father was employed by the Richardson Paper Co.



This was the only home that I knew through my childhood and up to the time of my marriage to Norma Hessler.  The house was a two bedroom bungalow, typical of the houses built in the early 1920`s.  It consisted of a living room, dining room, and kitchen on the first floor, and two bedrooms and a bathroom on the second floor.  There was a broad porch across the front and a smaller porch across the back.  The house was quite adequate for our family of five.  The front porch was a great place to play during a summer rain, provided that the wind was not blowing from the West.  We kids thought it was a great place to view a summer lightning storm. The house had central coal fired gravity heat, which made for great temperature fluctuations during the winter.  There was no thermostat to regulate heat, only a hand operated damper to regulate the combustion air to the furnace.  If you were cold you opened the damper, if you were hot, you close it.  Of course it is assumed that a supply of coal had been shoveled into the furnace.



	We did not have air conditioning for the summer (which was quite normal for the times), and which made for many uncomfortable nights during the extremely hot and humid spells; of which we have many in this area of Ohio.  Thinking back one wonders how we made it without the luxuries which are considered necessities today. The refrigeration for food was an "ice box' in the kitchen.  The "ice man" delivered a block of ice every day in the Summer, and maybe every other day in the Winter; because in the Winter everyone used a "window box" to keep food fresh.  A "window box" was just that, a metal box hung in a kitchen window opening, and with a hinged door opening toward the interior of the house.  The cold Winter air kept the food fresh.  And laundry was done in a washing machine with a hand driven "wringer" to extract the water from the clothing, and then hung outdoors to dry in the breeze.  And these things were luxuries, since not everyone had things so good.



	Of course in those "good old days", we all had our chores to do, whether after school or during summer vacations.  In the winter there was making sure that the furnace had enough coal.  And of course before winter my father would order coal, which was dumped in a pile in the street  in front of the house, and which my brothers and I had to transport by wheel barrow to be dumped into the coal bin through a basement window.  Every spring the carpets in the house had to be hung on a line in the back yard and be beaten to remove the winter accumulation of dirt.  Our mother would warn us to not beat the rugs too hard for fear that our neighbors would see how dirty the carpets were.  Of course we boys would see just how hard we could beat them just to see the dirt fly.													    	For a few years during the depths of the Depression our father had a garden plot near the Mill Creek, about a block from home, in which he planted vegetables such as potatoes, corn, green beans, tomatoes, and cabbage.  We all spent numerous hours hoeing, weeding, watering, and finally harvesting the crops.  Our mother also spent numerous hours canning the produce, which we all benefited from during the winter.  None of us complained about these chores, since they were a necessary part of our life.

	                                                                                                                                                               	I attended Kindergarten at Lockland School, located on North Cooper Avenue about a half mile from our house.  The first semester I was in the morning session and the second semester I was in the afternoon session.  My teacher was Miss Baker, whom I remember as a very nice lady, sort of a grandmother type, although she was probably not a day over thirty at the time.



GRADE SCHOOL

	After Kindergarten I attended primary school at St. James School, then located at the corner of South Cooper Avenue and Cresent Street in Wyoming, Ohio.  The school, its adjacent church and rectory do not exist any more.  The school, church and rectory operations were relocated to new facilities on Springfield Pike in Wyoming.



	When I began at the "old school" it was a two story brick structure.  There were four classrooms on the first floor and an auditorium on the second.  A double set of stairs connected the first and second floors.  The basement was divided into two parts; one side for girls , the other side for boys.  The basement was our indoor play area  during inclement weather.  Toilet facilities were also located in the basement.  Up until my fifth grade the four classrooms each contained two grades.  After that two classrooms were incorporated into the second floor because of expanding enrollment.

												There were no school buses in those days, particularly for urban or suburban school districts.  School buses were only used in the rural areas. The parents of about six  students on Westview Avenue contracted with a local taxi company to transport us to and from school..  This lasted until about the fifth or sixth grade, at which time we all began to walk to school, a distance of about one and one half miles.



	When I was in the fifth or sixth grade a Boy Scout troop was formed at St. James.  I joined the troop and advanced up through the ranks to First Class Scout.  I don't remember going any further.  Most of the activity was involved in meetings at the school, however one activity does stand out in my mind.  We made a summer trip to Indian Lake here in Ohio.  Father Leo Walsh, our parish priest made arrangements to rent a cabin at the lake, and took the entire troop (at least those who wanted to go) for a week of "camping".  It was fun, and it was the first time that I had spent time away from home.



	There was a deserted house down the road from our cabin, which we were told by Fr. Walsh was haunted.  He offered $5.00 to anyone who would spend the night in that house.  There were a few who said that they would not be afraid to spend the night, but as darkness fell the number of brave scouts fell to zero.  So much for the "tough guys".



	Our family did not own a car until about 1928, and the first car was a 1927 Buick sedan.  Prior to that time we walked or rode the bus or street car for our visits.  Having a car gave us a lot of flexibility, and the best of all it enabled us to take family vacation trips out of state.  I well remember those trips to Devils Lake in Michigan, which were made in 1929,1930 and1931; the Chicago Worlds Fair in 1934; th Smokie Mountains in 1936; Lake Winnebago in Wisconsin in 1937; Lake George in Indiana in 1938;Higgins and Houghton Lakes in Michigan in 1939; Michigan and Macanac Island in 1940;and the grand finale pre war trip to the Black Hills, Yellowstone Park, and the Teton Mountains.   The Chicago Fair was simply fantastic. One exhibit demonstrated the complete manufacture and assembly of an automobile, including painting and pin striping. Another was of the latest electrical wizardry of the time.  The lines to the exhibit buildings were long, and we probably spent more time waiting than we spent in the exhibit.  One in particular that I remember was the City of Tomorrow.  It indicated many high rise buildings, and a thing called "expressways", with automobiles speeding about, through interchanges, and overhead road systems.  Something unbelievable at the time, but quite commonplace today.  Another experience was riding the "L", the rapid transit system of day, and quite different from the Cincinnati "street cars".



	My mother and father were always generous on these vacations in that often my maternal grandmother (Elizabeth Beck), or my paternal grandmother and grandfather  (Elizabeth and  John H. Reese) accompanied us.  I don't remember how all of us managed to stuff ourselves (plus luggage) into any of our cars.  Those early automobiles did not have the trunk storage space as the cars of today.  The luggage was stuffed into the small rear storage and on the left running board secured with an expandable luggage rack.  This meant that you got into and out of the car only on the right side.  Another inconvenience (compared to today) was the lack of air conditioning.  We rode with all of the windows down, and of course the driver stood out in a crowd.  The driver always had a sunburned left arm, since one always drove with the left arm resting on the window sill.



	I will always remember the good times that we had during the summer.  Up the Ohio River from Cincinnati was a park called Coney Island. This was an amusement park, beautifully landscaped, with roller coaster rides, ferris wheel, carrousel, games, and the usual picnic grove.  Most people reached this park by river boat. These boats ran on a regular schedule from Cincinnati to Coney Island, and return.  There were two boats running these trips, the Island Queen, and a smaller boat, the Island Maid.  The Island Queen had a capacity of about 4000 people, and the Island Maid possibly 2500 people, The passage on the boats and admission to the park was about 25 cents, or on special promotions only ten cents per person.  That sounds cheap today, but at the time it was ordinary.  We would visit the park possibly twice a year.  Our mother would pack a picnic basket with food and lemonade, we (our mother and my brothers) would hop on a street car, ride to downtown Cincinnati, walk down Broadway to the Public Landing at the river, and enjoy the boat ride to Coney.  Before leaving the landing the boat Captain would give a long blast on the boat whistle, and it was always funny to watch families running down to the river at the last minute to catch the boat.  When we would arrive at Coney we would find a picnic table, plop down our picnic basket, spread out a table cloth on the table, and that was a sign that the table was reserved.  Quite different from today.  Sometimes we would return on one of the boats, or on occasions our father would drive to the park after work, join us, and we would all go home in the family car.



	Trips to the Zoo were another summer pleasure.  At least one of the trips had to be during the Food and Home Show.  Admission to the Zoo was only ten cents per person, and at some of the exhibitors booths there would be free food.(very small samples), and it was a game to see home many samples you could get.  Turtle soup was always a favorite.  The process was the same as Coney Island; pack a picnic basket, catch a street car to the Zoo, reserve a picnic table, and visit all the cages of animals.  These were simple pleasures, but at the time great adventures



	Our family was very fortunate during the Great Depression.  My father was never unemployed during that time, although he suffered a few pay reductions.  In those days everything was a luxury, including those things that today we would consider necessities.  There were so many poor families during the Depression that you didn't realize that you were poor unless you were destitute.  We never "ate out", movies were an occasional Sunday Matinee; since the costs were considerably less.  Possibly every month or six weeks Dad would purchase a nickel candy bar and it would be divided  five ways. Not a very big piece, but it was  a real treat.  Of course you must remember that a nickel candy bar was considerably larger than  a candy bar today.  This sounds like an exaggeration but it really is true.  Those today who did not experience the Depression do not realize the difficult times many people suffered.  Imagine what it would be like to be unemployed for two or three years, with no income, no welfare, no food stamps, but only the charity of family, friends and neighbors to keep ones family housed, fed and clothed.  It was a time that I would hope that this country will never have to suffer through again.  Once you were poor you would never forget it, and you would always prepare yourself should those times of serious depression ever return.  This is something that I wish more people would practice.																						Across the street from our house was a large field.  This open field was our playground for football, baseball, kite flying, and just general fun.  Each year the local American Legion Post sponsored an Easter egg hunt in this field.  On Easter morning we kids would sit at our second floor bedroom window watching the eggs being placed.  We thought that this would give us the advantage, since we saw where the eggs were being hidden.  Of course things never worked out as we had planned, and we never seemed to get any more eggs than anyone else; and never one of the prize eggs.



	My brother, Charles, and I were in to building model airplanes.  These were from kits which we bought from the local "ten cent store"(for ten cents)  The kits were made of balsa wood, a very light weight wood.  We would assemble the planes, carefully following the plans and instructions, using a fast setting glue to hold the pieces together.  The glue was called "airplane dope".  The final phase was to cover the frame or skeleton of the plane with a thin paper, called chinese rice paper.  The paper was stretched fairely tight over the frame and then wet with a fine mist of water.  As the paper dried it would shrink tightly over the frame, then it could be painted or decorated as you wished.  These planes were models of the propeller driven, open cockpit type that were prevalent in the late 1920's and early 1930's.  The propellers of the models were driven by rubber bands within the plane.  To fly the plane you had to wind the propeller, tightening the rubber bands, let it loose, and hope that it would fly and not crash.  Of course there were many more crashes than flights.



	Some of my early childhood memories were of our visits to my grandparents, both my maternal grandmother in Cumminsville, and my paternal grandparents in Wyoming.  When visiting during the summer months we all sat out on the front porch of either of the grandparent's house, speaking to neighbors strolling along the front walk, watching the bats fly around the street light, and swinging a smoldering piece of string to ward off the mosquitoes.  Once in a while a couple of the men would walk to a local saloon to get a can of beer to better enjoy the warm summer evening.  During the winter we would all gather around the "pot bellied stove" in the kitchen  																		  	The visits on the big holidays were always important.  Thanksgiving and Christmas dinners were big events.  I will always remember the homemade noodles made by my Grandma Beck.  She would carefully roll out the dough on a marble slab on the kitchen table, cut it into noodles, and set them out to dry.  And she made some of the best dumplings you ever tasted, light and fluffy.  It seems that we visited one or the other of our grandparents every other week.  Before my family purchased its first car, the visits to Cumminsville were by streetcar, or we  walked to Wyoming to visit my Grandma and Grandpa Reese.  I remember my Grandpa Reese as being a great story teller. Some of  his stories were from his bridge building days, and were ones that held our rapt attention, even though we had heard them many times before; like the time he had the cook buy lima beans, and the crew ate the beans one day, and the shells the next day.  Or the story of the train full of homing pigeons, that would slow down ever night because the pigeons would roost and add to the weight, but during the day they were flying about, enabling the train to go faster.  Weird but we still laughed.



	A friend of mine was a great Indian relic hunter.  He had quite a large collection of arrow heads and stone tomahawk heads, one of which was supposed to be the largest ever found in this area.  He lived in the Wyoming, Ohio area, and seemed to have no trouble finding arrow heads.  This led me to believe that they were quite abundant in the area.  Each Spring after the farmer had plowed his field near the Mill Creek, we used to spend days searching this field for arrow heads.  We did this for a number of years, but never did we find what we were looking for.  I guess the Mill Creek bottoms was not a hunting or camping grounds for any Indians           .		.

											  .HIGH SCHOOL																					After graduation from "grade school" I attended Roger Bacon High School in St. Bernard, Ohio.  Transportation to and from school was by street car. The ride from Lockland to St. Bernard took about forty five minutes, and since the street car was loaded with high school students from Roger Bacon (all boys) and Our Lady of Angles High School (all girls), it made for a boisterous ride.



	During my high school days I never seemed to be able to get interested in extracurricular activities, although there was no lack of opportunity. In retrospect I wish that I had been pushed or encouraged to get involved in something.  I guess I was not what you would call a "joiner".  Possibly it was genetic, since neither of my brothers were involved in any extracurricular activities either.Although my brother, Charles, was drum major for the Roger Bacon Band for a couple years. I would guess that to be "extracurricular".  I never had a great desire to get involved in team sports, although we neighborhood kids were always playing baseball or football.  I did enjoy being a spectator and enjoyed attending as many high school football and basketball games that I could.  I often wonder whether today's high school student would attend many sporting events if public transportation were the only means of getting there.  At the time transportation was a minor challenge.  All one needed was the time and the car fare.  My social life in High School was not very exciting, in fact I almost developed a dislike for the female of the species. Let me give you an example: I was dating a young lady who attended Our Lady of Angles High School.  One day she asked to borrow my camera.  After a few days she returned the camera, and asked if I would mind having the film developed for her.  When I picked up the film from the processor I found there to be photos of her and who turned out to be her "new" boyfriend.  I guess this was her message to me to not bother coming around any more.  There are other similar stories, but I won't go into the details.



	 It seems that, no different from today, a car as a means of transportation was critical to obtaining a date.  No self respecting high school girl would ever consent to going on a date on a street car, and that was my only option, even after I was old enough to have a drivers license.  My parents always seemed reluctant to let me use the family car for a date, since as they would so often say, "We always rode the street car, so why can't you."  So it was group activities with others who were in the same boat as me.  Some of the group activities included roller skating at one of the roller rinks in Cincinnati, school dances at either Roger Bacon or Our Lady of Angles High School, and at least an annual "moonlight" cruise on the Island Queen.  Of course all of our transportation was by streetcar or bus, so it was always a challenge to make sure that one did not miss the last bus or streetcar



	This is not to say there was no neighborhood fun. During the Summer there were make-up baseball games, and in the Fall there were football games. No winners or losers, just plain fun. During the winter it seems the Mill Creek was always frozen. (I know that its not true, but its like most exaggerated stories of one's youth.) It seems we were ice skating all the time, and of course there was always snow on the ground. One particular Winter a group of us were sledding on a hill near the Mill Creek. The path was between two trees about one third the way down the hill. It was night time and no lights. I had negotiated the hill a few times, but the last time I slammed into one of the trees. It knocked me out, and when I woke I found it was difficult to breathe and walk. My friends laid me on a sled and hauled me home. The next day our doctor said I had broken two ribs, in addition to bruises. I remained taped up for what seemed like the rest of the Winter. .



	During summer vacation after my first year of high school, I managed to find a job with a small "truck farmer" in Wyoming, Ohio.  I arose at about five in the morning, ate breakfast, and rode my bicycle to the farm, arriving about six, and immediately go to work.   This was strictly manual labor, planting , hoeing, weeding and harvesting the crops.  It was "stoop" labor, but it kept me physically fit, and provided me with some spending money.  I think on a good week I may have earned about eight dollars.  There were also times of mowing, raking, and gathering hay from the fields to be stored in the loft in the barn.  That was the most back breaking job that I remember.  And in the heat of the summer it was miserable.  The same farmer had a truck route (then called a "huckster" route) on which he sold produce from door to door all year around.  I also worked with him on the route each Saturday throughout the year.  For this twelve hour day I received one dollar.  This lasted through my junior year in high school, when I finally decided that I had enough.



COLLEGE



	I knew that I wanted to go on to college after high school, as I had developed an interest in architecture about my sophomore or junior year.  The high school offered no curriculum that could guide me.  There were no art classes or even mechanical drawing classes.  I oriented my courses around math, physics and chemistry so that I could be assured of meeting the requirements for admission to college.  Since I would be the first in my family to attend a college or university, I was pretty much flying on my own.  Somehow I managed to make the grade.  My application for admission to the University of Cincinnati, School of Applied Arts was accepted and I looked forward to beginning classes in the Autumn of 1939.



	 My first day of classes at the University was quite an experience.  Most of my classes were scheduled in the Engineering Quadrangle which consisted of Swift Hall, Baldwin Hall, and the Chemistry Building.  My first class was World History and was scheduled in Baldwin Hall.  Not knowing anything about the geography of the campus, I was thoroughly lost as to the location of Baldwin Hall.  After asking a few questions I finally located Baldwin Hall and the proper classroom, but only after the lecture had started.  I was embarrassed walking into the lecture, but was further embarrassed by the professor with a lecture about being on time.  The entire class learned that from then on no one should enter the classroom after the lecture has started and the classroom door was closed.  Unfortunately today these disciplinary measures do not exist.

	                                                                                                                                                          	I was rushed for a fraternity early in my freshman year. The fraternity was Phi

Kappa, a Catholic fraternity, with its house located on the south side of University Avenue opposite Woodside Place.  The house has been razed and the University Bookstore now occupies the site.  After attending a few parties, luncheons and dinners I elected not to join because of the cost.  The country was still experiencing the Depression and neither I nor my parents had the money.



	A friend who I had met during my early days at UC asked if  I wanted to accompany him and his mother for Christmas break in Miami, Florida.  His father lived in Florida each winter because of health conditions  My parents were very reluctant to agree to this, since one was simply not gone from home on the Christmas holidays.  But after they met his mother, they agreed, and we were off on our Florida adventure.  Thinking back my parents were very generous in allowing me to take this trip.  With three drivers we drove straight through from Cincinnati to Miami, and this was before modern expressways.  We had a good time sailing (which I had never done before), visiting various sights, and picking oranges.  Although spending Christmas with a family other than mine did seem very strange.  My friend left UC after his freshman year, and I totally lost contact with him.										                     .												After the completion of my freshman year I had to find employment for the summer in order to earn money for tuition, books, and other expenses for the following year.  In 1940 the United States was still trying to recover from the Great Depression, and employment in an architect's office was difficult to impossible to find.   Our pastor  at St. James Church in Wyoming, Ohio attempted to use his influence with a Cincinnati architect, Edward Schulte, to help me with an interview. The Schulte firm had designed the new church and school for St. James parish.  I did get an interview with Edward Schulte but was not accepted for employment for a number of reasons, primarily the lack of experience on my part, but also the lack of work on the part of the architect.



	I did find employment, through the help of my father, at the Gardner Richardson Paper Company, in Lockland, Ohio.  My starting pay was 45 cents per hour which related to $18.00 per week.  That doesn't sound like much today, but there were families living on wages like that during the Great Depression, and they didn't consider themselves poverty stricken.  I held a number of jobs while at Gardner Richardson, working in the board mill shipping department, unloading box cars filled with scrap paper and pulp board, loading beaters and working on paper making machines.  It was hot work and very physical, but I survived.



	The School of Applied Arts at the University of Cincinnati was in the co-op system.  This was a system whereby a student alternated between work and study.  Each student in the system would attend classes for 13 weeks and work 13 weeks.  Each student would have an "alternate" who was to replace him for the work quarter.  My "alternate" at the paper mill was a friend, John Sloniker, who was also studying architecture.  I elected to begin my class session in the Winter quarter, which meant that John would begin classes in the Autumn quarter.  It also meant that I would continue to work through the Autumn quarter enabling me to earn and save more money toward tuition.



	The work /school co-op situation worked fine.  I was able to save enough money each quarter of work to pay for tuition, books, and other expenses during the class quarter.  I continued with Gardner Richardson through my pre-junior year.  I was earning far more than any of my classmates, but I was not having any practical architectural experience.  In the Autumn of 1941 I heard of an engineering firm from Chicago that had set up an office in Reading, Ohio.  This firm; Alvord, Burdick and Howson; had a contract with the Defense Department to plan a well field and water pipeline from Hamilton, Ohio to the Wright Aeronautical Aircraft Engine Plant (now the General Electric Company) in Evendale, Ohio, and to install a well field and pumping station to provide the water.  I was interviewed and was successful in obtaining a job as a draftsman and field survey assistant.  This work was very enjoyable in that I worked with the field survey crew for a few days, and then I would return to the office to translate the survey notes into drawings.



	This work lasted through the Autumn of 1941, at which time I was fortunate to gain employment with the US Geological Survey.  The USGS had an office in the same building as Alvord, Burdick and Howsan, and was working on the same project.  My title with the USGS was Hydrographic Technician, which meant that I drew underground water level maps of the well field area in Hamilton.



																																																						          WORLD WAR II



	On December 7,1941 the Japanese bombed Pearl Harbor in Hawaii and the United States entered World War II with the Allies (England and France) against the Axis (Japan, Italy and Germany).  Many young men were being called up in the military draft; which actually began in 1940; to serve in the armed forces of the United States.  The US Army and the Air Force had representatives on the campus of the University of Cincinnati soliciting enlistment's.  The story we were told was that if we enlisted we would have the opportunity to complete our education before having to serve in the military.  This sounded like a good deal, so much so that many of us enlisted.  I tried first to enlist in the Air Force, since that seemed to be the more glamorous.  I failed the Air Force test because of my eyesight.  I wore eyeglasses and the Air Force wanted only those who had 20/20 vision without eyeglasses.  My next stop was the Army.  On June 26, 1942 I enlisted in the Army with the expectation that I would be able to graduate before being called into active service.



	In the summer of 1942 my family took the last vacation on which all five of us would participate.  In the latter part of 1941 my father purchased a new car, a 1941 Buick Special, and this was used for an extended (three weeks) trip out west.  We visited the Black Hills, Mt. Rushmore, the Badlands, Yellowstone Park, Teton National Park, and Salt Lake City and the Great Salt Lake.  It was a glorious trip, one that I will never forget.  Being twenty years old, and with a driver's license, my father permitted me to share in the driving responsibilities during the trip.  He probably regretted this decision, since I was driving in Utah through an area called Strawberry Valley, when I was picked up for speeding.  I received quite a lecture from the highway patrolman, (but no ticket), and a corresponding lecture from my father, although he permitted me to continue with the shared driving.



	On April 24,1943 I received the news from the Army that I was to report for active duty.  In fact practically all the men in the class of 1944 at the University of Cincinnati were just about eliminated in one felled swoop.  What a shock, only a year to go before graduation and the Army said, "we want you".  It was then that I found out that you never believe anything the Army tells you.



	I reported to Fort Thomas, Kentucky on May 18, 1943 for my indoctrination and by May 31, 1943 I was on my way to Fort Belvoir, Virginia for my basic training in the Corps of Engineers.  Strange to say, but I enjoyed my basic training and its discipline; and I was proud to be in the Engineers.  Basic training lasted  thirteen weeks, and at the end I received the usual two week furlough before receiving my next assignment; which I thought meant going over seas.  After returning to Fort Belvoir I found that I had been accepted into the training cadre of Company A, First Battalion  with the rank of Corporal.  I now was a drill instructor to the next batch of recruits.  In another thirteen weeks this recruit class was on its way. and I found myself with another promotion; this time to Sergeant.  I now had the responsibility for an entire platoon with three Corporals under me.  I was really coming up in the military world.  I passed up the opportunity for officers candidate school, and to this day I don't know why.  After all my brother Charles was a Second Lieutenant in the Air Force.  Two of my fellow sergeants were accepted into officers training ,became second lieutenants and ended up in England.



	In November,1944 I received my orders to ship out.  After a three week furlough at home, I reported to the Army embarkation center at Camp Reynolds, Pennsylvania.  After a couple days of instructions and issuing of equipment we boarded the troop transport ship named the General Richardson.  We left port at night, not having been told of our destination.  There was much speculation as to where we were going to end up.  Normally a trip across the Atlantic Ocean would be in convoy with Navy destroyer escort.  Our ship was considered fast enough to go it alone.  The constant fear was the possibility of German submarine attack.



	The second day out in the Atlantic Ocean I became seasick.  I had never been so sick in all my life.  I didn't think that I would ever recover, and wished that I would die.  This lasted for about 24 hours, and after recovery the rest of the voyage went quite well.



	There were about 2500 troops aboard our ship, living in very crowded conditions, and eating only two meals a day.  The biggest problem was boredom.  There was absolutely nothing to do, and one was lucky to find a place to sit.  Even our meals were eaten standing up.



	When we passed through Gibraltar into the Mediterranean Sea we were finally told that we were headed for Italy.  After eleven days at sea we landed  at the harbor of Naples.  To call it a harbor was almost a misnomer.  There were sunken ships all over, in fact our debarkation was on a foot bridge across at least two ships on there sides.  We were transferred with our gear to a Fifth Army Replacement Depot which was located outside the town of Casserta.  This was a "tent city"; acres of six man pyramidal tents.  To offset boredom there were lots of close order drills, policing the area (that's army talk for picking up bits of paper and cigarette butts); lots of army type stuff.  Once in a while I managed to get a day pass into Casserta, which at least was a diversion.



	After a few months a number of us were transferred to another replacement depot north of Rome near the city of Empoli.  This was another tent city, and more of the same.  I felt that this was a tremendous waste of time and I managed to get assigned to a two week course in Bailey Bridge design and construction.  This was a wonderful diversion and at least I was doing something productive and educational.



	The trouble was that it didn't last too long, and it was back to the same old grind.  About this time I heard that I could volunteer for the mail run from our camp to the front which was near the town of Modena.  There were three of us; a driver, a guard and me (the boss-since a non-commissioned officer was required for the run).  We drove up one day and back the next.  It was a beautiful drive through Florence, Pistoia, and up through the mountains to Bologna.  These trips gave me a wonderful opportunity to visit the architectural gems of Florence; the Cathedral, Baptistery, and Campanile, Ponte Vecchio and many of the  wonders of this beautiful city.  Once we made a detour through Pisa which afforded me a visit to the Cathedral and Baptistery, and most of all an opportunity to climb to the top of the Leaning Tower.  This was an unbelievable experience; climbing the stone circular stairs in the interior of the tower to the top-coming out to a sloping surface which almost made one feel that one would fall off.  I was able to visit the beautiful Cathedral in Milan, the Galleria (the predecessor of today's shopping mall), and what was left of the partially destroyed La Scalla Opera



	My sole "war story" during my short stint in Italy occurred on one of our "mail runs". We were on our way north, through the mountains, on narrow roads when we were clipped by a "tank retriever", (a semi-trailer used to bring disabled tanks back from the front for repair).  The truck, with three of us in the cab ( illegally by army standards) went off the road and down the side of the mountain, turning over a couple of times, and landed right side up.  None of us was injured, I guess because we were wedged in the cab, and were wearing steel helmets.  I climbed back up to the road and hitched a ride to our destination. I reported the accident, and the officer in charge was only interested in whether the mail was salvaged.  That was the only thing that was important to him, not whether any was injured or possibly killed.  I don't think that the driver of the tank retriever even realized that he had hit us.  The three of us managed to get together again, obtained another truck and returned to Empoli.  The fact that we had wrecked an army vehicle was of no consequence, since people and equipment were expendable during war times.  In fact we would pass this same spot many times later, and the wrecked truck was still on the side if the mountain.  Who knows, it may still be there.



	In May of 1945 the war in Europe ended and there was a big push to get the military home and discharged.  This was done on a point system; the details of which elude me.  Nevertheless I had not accumulated enough points for discharge.  Much to my disappointment I was assigned to the 47th Quartermaster Graves Registration Co.  This was primarily because of my training with the Corps of Engineers and some knowledge of surveying.  Graves Registration was responsible for the layout of all military cemeteries and the interment of bodies.



	About mid-July, 1945 I heard of an opportunity to take a trip to Switzerland.  I immediately signed up, since the total cost for an all expense paid vacation was $35.00 (for ten days) plus a limit of an additional $35.00 in spending money.  We couldn't spend one night in a motel today for that much money.  The trip was wonderful, fully escorted by a Swiss government representative.  We visited Davos, Lucerne, St. Moritz, Einsiedeln, Brunnen, and Lugano.  Switzerland is a beautiful, clean, and friendly country.  We will return one day.



	By mid August, 1945 our group received word to ship out to the Pacific Areea. We boarded trucks with all our gear and were transported to the port of Leghorn (Livorno) to board our ship.  We were boarding the troop ship Sea Cat, on August 15, 1945 when we received word that the war with Japan was over. An extra edition of the military newspaper, Stars and Stripes, was distributed. The front page had only three words; ITS ALL OVER. Somehow the ship's  crew found a recording of "Lets Take the Long Way Home", and played over and over on the ship's PA system. Not necessarily a morale booster. There was a lot of speculation  as to what would happen to us.  Would we really go to the Philippines, or would we go to New York.  At Gibraltar we were told to head for New York.  This made for a lot of happy troops.  Of course once again on the Atlantic Ocean I became seasick, but this time I knew that I wouldn't die.  While at sea I was promoted to Staff Sergeant.



	After all of the necessary debarkation rituals, I received a one month furlough at home, with orders to report to Camp Lee, Virginia.  After a wonderful month at home, it was back to reality and the army.  It was necessary to deactivate the 47th Graves Registration Company.  This was the usual army protocol of signing for this and signing for that, most of which I knew nothing about, or for equipment which was non-existent; but as the senior non-commissioned officer it became my responsibility.



	Finally in late January, 1946, I received word to report to Fort Meade, Maryland to be discharged, and on February 1, 1946 I completed my obligation to the US Army.

.

POST WAR



	I re-entered the University of Cincinnati in the Spring quarter of 1946, and it was as if I had never left.  Everyone (the males that is) was back from the war.  Shortly after my return to classes I was tapped to join Scarab, an honorary architectural fraternity.  It was a thrill with quite an impressive initiation ceremony at the Hotel Alms.



	Shortly after returning to civilian life, I felt that I really deserved my first automobile.  After all I was almost 25 years old and I felt that I knew pretty much about driving.  A lot different than today when one must have one's own car by the time one reaches 16 years of age.  A new (1946) car was almost impossible to buy, since all automobiles had been manufactured for the military for four years, and there was a tremendous backlog of potential buyers.  I finally found a used 1941 Chevrolet sedan for which I paid the owner about the same amount that he had paid when it was new, about $900.	Nevertheless it provided me with necessary transportation.	                                                                                                                                   	                                                                                                                                                      	About this time I broke up with a young lady whom I had dated and corresponded with during my stint in the military.  She informed me that all during our dating; which was primarily while on furlough during my military experience, and all of our correspondence; she was really engaged to someone else.  I felt that I had been used.  I had similar experiences in dating during high school, and my early years in college, and I felt that dating was one bad experience after another. Through the efforts of friends I obtained a blind date with  Norma Hessler of Mt. Healthy, Ohio.  We spoke on the phone a number of times prior to that first date.  I almost felt that I knew Norma even before meeting her.  Our first date was almost a disaster. It was on June 15, 1946, a particularly warm summer night.  We went with mutual friends to an establishment called Alpine Inn Restaurant in the Cheviot area of Cincinnati.  It was a place to gather with friends for food, to talk, dance and have a beer or two.  During the course of the evening a tipsy sailor spilled a glass of beer down Norma's back.  I don't recall many details after that except that I thought that this was the end of what otherwise would have been a lovely evening.  Apparently it was not as bad as I had thought, for that first date was followed with another date the next day, Sunday, for swimming at Phillip's  pool in Westwood.  It was love at first sight, for Norma and I dated regularly from then on.  For the first time I felt that I was not being used by someone so as to attain another goal. It was true love.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             	In December of 1946 I asked Norma to be my wife and she agreed.  I presented her with an engagement ring on Christmas.  From that point on it was a whirlwind of activity, what with preparing scholastically for my graduation from the University, setting a wedding date, Norma arranging for a wedding dress, getting bridesmaids resolved, and arranging for a reception  hall.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     	On June 6, 1947 I graduated from the University with a degree of Bachelor of Science in Architecture.  After graduation I maintained a job that I held as a co-op student, with the firm of Burton-Rogers located in Bond Hill, a suburb of Cincinnati.  This firm designed and constructed large displays for conventions.  It was interesting work but not much pay.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        	                                       	Norma and I had originally set our wedding date for June 14, 1947 at Assumption Church in Mt. Healthy. We were advised by the parish priest, Father Sieve, that the date was already reserved.  We then chose the date of July 5, 1947.  Two weeks before our wedding Father Sieve informed us that because of a family conflict (his nephew was to be married the same day) he would not be able to preside at our wedding, but that he would arrange for a Franciscan priest to perform the ceremony.  This of course was a huge disappointment especially to Norma and her parents, since they were long time parishioners of Assumption Church.  We told him that with his permission we would see if my parish priest, Rev. Leo M. Walsh from St. James Church in Wyoming, Ohio could marry us.   Father Walsh heartily agreed, and our wedding took place as scheduled.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               	The  wedding; a beautiful ceremony; occurred at Assumption Church with a church full of relatives and friends.  The witnesses were my brother Charles H. Reese, Jr., my cousin Robert N. Reese, Norma's cousin Marie Grace Hessler from Detroit, Michigan, and two dear friends of Norma's, Mary Rodden and Mary Cowles.  After a wedding breakfast at the home of Norma's parents, the wedding party traveled by limousine to Dayton, Ohio to visit Norma's sister who was a nun at St. Elizabeth's Hospital.  Unfortunately her sister, Sr. Therese Martin Hessler was not permitted by her order, Sisters of the Poor of St. Francis, to attend the wedding Mass or any of the post wedding celebrations.  Fortunately the rules are now greatly relaxed.  	                                                                                                                           												The wedding reception was held at the Mt. Airy Civic Center on North Bend Road in Mt. Airy.  After the reception Norma and I left for our honeymoon.  Our first night together was spent in the Mariemont Inn in Mariemont, Ohio.  On Sunday morning after attending Mass and having breakfast we were on our way to Chicago, where we spent two days visiting the sights, and at least one evening in the famous Trianon Ballroom dancing.  Then it was on up through Wisconsin, where outside the town of Pulaski we had the misfortune of burning out a rod bearing on our car.  We had to spend the night in a hotel in Pulaski, and between the cost of having the car repaired, and losing a day we were lucky to complete our trip.  You must remember that these were the days before Visa, Master Card, American Express, or any of the other forms of "plastic" money.  When you went on a trip, you carried cash with you, not "plastic" as is done today.  Nevertheless we drove on through Wisconsin and into the upper peninsula of Michigan.  Coming down through Michigan we took a ferry, at the Straits of Mackinaw to Mackinac Island.  While on the island we vowed that someday we would return for a stay at the Grand Hotel.  We then toured down  through Michigan and back home.  Home for us at the time  was a third floor apartment which we, through luck, had acquired at 1313 Greenup Street., in Covington Kentucky.  Apartments at that time were very difficult to find due to the post war housing shortage.  The location worked out fine in that I was able to drive Norma to her work location at the Revere Copper and Brass office in the Carew Tower in Cincinnati and I to Burton- Rogers, and then in the evening I would pick her up on the way back home.





OUR FAMILY

																							In November, 1947 we found we would be expecting our first child in June of the following year.  Norma's obstetrician told us that climbing steps to a third floor apartment was not in Norma's best interest.  We began our search for another apartment, preferably one on the first floor.  Through sheer luck we found an apartment at 7362 Perry Street in Mt. Healthy, Ohio.  It was on the first floor of a former tailor shop which was being remodeled into four apartments.  We were able to move into this new facility because Norma's sister, Loretta, and her husband were on the waiting list for one of the apartments, but were able to find another apartment elsewhere in Mt. Healthy.  We acquired their spot on the waiting list and were able to move in as soon as the apartment was completed, in early March,1948.                          										                   					About this time I determined that my current salary at Burton-Rogers would not be sufficient to support our upcoming family.  I interviewed for a position with the architectural firm of Samuel Hannaford & Sons located in the Dixie Terminal Building in Cincinnati.  I was fortunate in being selected and began working in April, 1948 for the magnificent salary of  $65.00 per week.  This was grand enough to enable Norma to resign her position with Revere Copper  and Brass, and we could live fairly comfortably on my salary alone.  Additionally I was able to ride a bus to town every day, and save the expense of driving our car.



	Our first child; a son, John Carlton Reese; was born on June 27, 1948.  I remember the seemingly endless wait in the "expectant fathers waiting room" at Good Samaritan Hospital.  About a month prior to delivery, Norma suffered an accident with a pressure cooker.  She had tried to open it too soon and the steam scalded her abdomen to the point that her obstetrician thought that she might lose our baby.  It was quite a relief to be informed that she had delivered a perfectly normal, healthy baby boy. Sister Therese Martin was at Good Samaritan Hospital at the time, and had assisted in the delivery.  Quite a thrill for her (and us),  After the usual five day stay in the hospital, I brought Norma and our son home to our apartment.  Our apartment neighbors said that they never heard Jay cry at night, but we knew that they were being kind, since our apartment walls and ceiling transmitted sound quite well.	 												   	                                                                                     	Our little family grew up in that small one bed room Mt. Healthy apartment.  We matured in many ways; learning how to be parents, teaching Jay how to walk and talk, learning how to cope with staying home on Saturday night, and learning how to share our lives.													                                                                                                                             	In the Fall of 1948 my father was transferred to Cleveland, Ohio   He had been assigned as Plant Manager of a new paper milk bottle manufacturer called Dairy-Pak.  My parents sold their home in Lockland, and purchased a new home in Parma, Ohio, a suburb of Cleveland.  This became our Summer vacation spot for quite a few years, primarily because it was a chance to visit my parents and show off their grandchild, but it also provided free food and lodging.												                                                                                  	During the Summer of 1949 we decided that our prime goal was to become home owners.  We had managed to save a small sum of money for a downpayment.  It seemed that every little home we looked at had the same unaffordable (to us) price of $13,500.00.  Then one day we saw a new subdivision being developed off North Bend Road in Springfield Township (Finneytown).  We looked at the model homes and found that a three bed room could be purchased for the unbelievable price of $11,000.00.  We could hardly believe it.  Now we could afford to buy our own home.  All we needed was a financial boost.  Norma's parents agreed to lend us the $500.00 we needed to get over the hump.  We signed the necessary purchase agreement papers and we were on our way to the American dream - home ownership.																		Through the Winter of 1949 and the Spring of 1950 we watched our home at 6640 Ridgefield Drive rise out of the ground.  In the Summer of 1950 we moved into our new three bedroom home. It looked like a castle to us.							                                                                                                            	In the Autumn of 1950 Norma told me that we were going to have an increase in our family.  My position with Samuel Hannaford & Sons continued strong.  By now I was earning about $100.00 per week, the old Chevrolet was nine years old; so it was time for a "new" car. We bought a 1949 Ford sedan.  It was also time for Norma to learn to drive.  With perseverance on both of our parts she mastered the clutch and "stick shift" and before long we had a second, but pregnant, driver in the family.  With my using public transportation to my daily work. Norma had the car at her disposal, and her driving gave her daily freedom.															                                                                            	Our second child, Patricia Ann was born in Good Samaritan Hospital on May 18, 1951.  We are now beginning to fill up those three bed rooms. 															We continue to take our Summer vacations in Cleveland visiting my parents, only now I am beginning to wonder whether we aren't exceeding the limits of my parents generosity and patience, since not only are we taking advantage of their hospitality, but my brother Charles and his family were doing the same, as were numerous relatives and friends.  But my parents seemed to encourage these visits.  Of course this was not always a one way street.  We did reciprocate by accommodating my parents with their visits on Christmas and Easter.



	Our Christmases are beginning to be more fulfilling what with all the preparation.  Our custom with all of the children was that Santa Claus brought and decorated the Christmas Tree plus all of the gifts,  This made for quite a joyful surprise on Christmas morning when the children arose (usually at 5:00 AM).  But at this point in time I don't know how we did it physically.  To get the children to bed, bring in the tree from its hiding place, decorate it, get the gifts out of hiding, and still get a few hours sleep, is still unbelievable today when it takes us a week just to put up and decorate the tree.



	Our Ridgefield  Drive neighbors consisted almost entirely of World War II veterans.  All in the same boat financially.  All living in their first home.  All mortgaged to the hilt, and all eager to rear families.  We were doing our bit to add to the population when we found in early 1952 that our family was to expand.  On October 27, 1952 our third child, and second daughter, Jennifer Lynn was born.  We were really beginning to fill up our house.  There was the fun of Christmas, of course, and the egg hunts in our yard on Easter, and the birthday parties.  The tradition was that on the first birthday, the birthday child received an icing laden cake to totally destroy.  Jay seems to have done the best job on his.  In addition to completely messing up the icing, the cake was pushed to the floor (we have a movie record of this), and Jay laughing about the terrific job he had done.  Patty and Jenny were a little more discrete and lady like in the destruction of their cakes(this is also recorded on movie film).																		We were now beginning to enlarge on our Cleveland vacations.  One year we spent part of the time with my mother and father and then part of the time at Lake Pymatuning (between Ohio and Pennsylvania).  One of the big attractions was feeding the carp.  I had never seen such large carp.  The thing to do was get a loaf of stale bread, break the slices into pieces and then toss the pieces on the beach.  The carp would come out of the water, wriggle onto the beach, get the bread, and then back into the water.  The children got a big "bang" out of this.																					Another venture from Cleveland was a visit to Niagara Falls.  We drove to Buffalo, NY where we crossed the border into Canada.  The Canadian Customs Officer was doing his usual bit, asking about us, where we were from, whether we were natural born citizens of the USA, how long we were going to stay, and whether we had anything to declare.  I said that we didn't, when from the back seat Jay said, "aren't you going to tell him about the gold in the trunk?"  I could have fallen through the floor.  The Customs Officer calmly looked Jay in the eye, and said, "Son don't you ever do that again".  He then permitted us to enter Canada.  Other than that incident, we spent two enjoyable days visiting the falls,  and all the sights around.																In early 1954 I determined that my employer, Samuel Hannaford & Sons was having a decreasing volume of business.  It was a shame that a firm as old and as prominent as it was, would be having a  decline in clientele.  It was simply a case of not keeping up with the times.  While I was there I was involved in projects at Holmes Hospital, University Hospital (then Cincinnati General Hospital), Jewish Hospital (Cincinnati), Drake Hospital (then County Hospital), plus hospitals in Barbarton, Ohio, Greensberg, NC, Greensboro, SC, and Gainsville, Georgia.  I enjoyed my association with the Hannaford firm, made a number of friends, but it was time to move on.														 	I began perusing the classified ads in the newspapers.  I found a firm called Ajax Construction Co. advertising for an architect.  I submitted my resume, and subsequently received a response requesting an interview.  I was interviewed in the home of the firms president, Carl Sinnige, who lived in Mt. Lookout, a Cincinnati suburb.  I was hired on the spot and was to report for work in two weeks.  I submitted my resignation to Eldridge Hannaford the president of Samuel Hannaford & Sons, who accepted it graciously, and wished me luck.																				                   	Beginning to work for Ajax meant we had to make a change in our lifestyle.  We had one car, and public transportation was not available between Finneytown and Golf Manor, the location of the Ajax Construction Co.'s office.  It meant that I must use our car daily, or in cases when Norma needed transportation she had to take me to the office and pick me up.  Somehow it all worked out, since we couldn't afford to buy or operate a second car																						Ajax Construction Co. was involved in institutional and commercial construction.  The majority of its work was won on a competitive bidding basis.  It was also involved in design/build projects.  I was hired for this side of the business.  I was involved in designing and preparing the construction documents for numerous small to medium sized remodeling and new construction projects.  Some that come to mind are several A&P Supermarkets, Klosterman Baking Co., Tri-State Savings and Loan, St. Agnes Parish Convent (Lookout Heights, Kentucky), a school addition and rectory addition for St. Bernard Parish (Taylor Creek, Ohio) , and an office and manufacturing plant for the Gardner Board and Carton Co. in Lockland, Ohio.



	While at Ajax most of the office staff would eat lunch at various small restaurants around the Golf Manor and Roselawn area. One memorable lunch was at a small spot in Roselawn on Reading Road. The owner told us that he had recently acquired a franchise for a new fried chicken called Kentucky Fried Chicken. He introduced us to the developer of this new fried chisken, a distinguished gentleman in a white suit, white hair, white goatee and mustash, and with a black string tie. It was Col. Harlan Sanders. We all shook hands with him, never realizing that we had met the originator of what is now known as KFC.																							In 1955 we decided that our house on Ridgefield Drive should be expanded to make it more livable.  One thing that we missed was a porch.  The house had a small covered "porch" in the front but not very usable.  We began tossing about ideas, and I made sketches for a porch addition in the rear of the house. As time went on the ideas became more elaborate; from a bare porch, to a covered porch, to a partially enclosed porch, to finally a room with a fireplace.  The room, however, never lost its original name-"the porch"																						Finally I began construction in the Spring of 1956.  With the help of Norma's father, Martin Hessler, we excavated for the foundation footings, poured the footings, laid up the concrete block foundation, did all the carpentry work and roofing, installed windows, and even laid up the brick fireplace and chimney.  I had told our neighbors that I expected to build a fire in the fireplace by Thanksgiving of that year.  I accomplished the feat although the room was far from completed.  The room was completed in the Spring of 1957, and we enjoyed the use of it until we sold the house.																											In mid 1958 we realized that we would be expecting our fourth child, and on February 5, 1959 our third daughter, Susan Elizabeth, was born.  Jay, Patty, and Jenny were in St. Vivian School, so I knew that a new baby in our family it would make for a busy  time for Norma, having to get three youngsters off to school - getting them dressed, fed, lunches packed, and seeing them off to the school bus, but it all worked out.  I will say that the younger children were a big help with the household chores, particularly Patty, who at even a young age was able to help with the cooking.																I had never pursued a professional registration after I graduated from UC.  Through the prodding of Norma and Carl Sinnige, I finally decided in the Spring of 1959 to take the examination in Columbus, Ohio, for registration in Architectural Engineering.  I spent two days in Columbus taking the examination with many others who were attempting registration in many disciplines.																			In the late summer of 1959 I received word that I had passed the examination, which was a relief, but the great surprise was that I had received the highest grade that year in the architectural engineering examination.  On September 22, 1959 I received my certificate of registration in Columbus, Ohio.																		Obtaining a registration as a professional engineer began to pay off almost immediately.  In early 1960 I was promoted to Vice-president of Ajax and was assigned a company car.  This now made us a two car family, and returned to Norma the freedom of movement that she had when I worked for Hannaford's.  It also helped out with the budget in that the gasoline and maintenance on the second car was paid for by the company which was providing me with transportation to and from work.



	Also in 1959 the company was doing some speculative design work for a person who had political connections in Frankfort, Kentucky.  Since we were not to be compensated in any way, this person arranged for both Carl Sinnige and I to be commissioned as Kentucky Colonels.  At the time we considered this to be quite an honor, but later found that these commissions were given regularly by the governor		 												In early 1961 we realized  we would be blessed with our fifth child.  This pregnancy presented us with a dilemma.  Either we expand the house, or we move to a larger house.  I opted for the expansion route, since we could have easily expanded upward, with either two or three bedrooms and a bath on the second floor.  Norma was not too receptive to that idea, since the expansion would not only have made our house the largest house on the street, but it would have been out of scale with the rest of the neighborhood.  The other houses were similar to ours; two and three bedroom, single story ranch style homes.  Instead Norma opted for a larger home, preferably new, and in the Finneytown area.  In retrospect I must agree that she was right.  Having a car available enabled her to visit various housing developments in the area.  On the weekends Norma and I would visit the areas she thought might have possibilities.  For various reasons each was eliminated, but then one night I came home from work and Norma told me that she had found the place.  It was a new development north of Galbraith Road and east of Daly Road in Finneytown.  The area was called Brentwood Heights.  The developer had built three model homes on Daly Road, consisting of a split level house and two ranch style houses.  But the developer had plans to build larger four bedroom, two story, homes as the project grew.																						After reviewing the sketch drawings and outline specifications we decided we were interested in the purchase of a four bedroom, two and one half bath room, center hall colonial design house.  Our specification was that it must have a two car garage and a fireplace in the living room.  We viewed available lots, but our specification for a two car garage eliminated all but one - a corner lot at the intersection of Foxcroft and Fernwell Drives.  We agreed on this lot and signed the purchase agreement.															With the new baby expected to be born in August, we were pressed into action.  We had to make a number of decisions - brick color, roofing  color, ceramic tile colors for the bath rooms, bath room fixtures, kitchen cabinets, flooring and paint colors, etc.  In addition we had to sell our present house, and of course hopefully the new house would be completed on time.																					We contracted with a Realtor to sell our house on Ridgefield Drive.  The house was sold in less than three weeks.  We closed on the sale in early July and moved into our new home on August 8, 1961.																				On August 31, 1961 our fourth daughter, Mary Louise was born, a little over three weeks after we had moved into 8444 Foxcroft Drive.  We now had two families in the house; three children in grade school - Jay in the eighth grade, Patty in the fifth, Jenny in the third, and two infants.  The older children were a big help to us during this period.												I would want to think that all of our children enjoyed us all, and each other,  as a family.  We did many things together, especially vacations.  The children were involved in outside activities; Jay was in the Cub Scouts, Boy Scouts, and Explorer Scouts.  Patty and Jenny were involved in the Brownies.  Norma was a Den Mother, and I was a Scout Leader.  Jay took guitar lessons, Patty and Jenny studied the piano.  Many of these lessons were held on Saturday in Mt. Healthy and North College Hill, which made the weekends somewhat hectic.  Susan took ballet and possibly this contributed to her interest in music and theater.  Mary Lou studied the piano for quite a few years, with an instructor coming to our house, and then study at the College Conservatory of Music at the University of Cincinnati.																				Vacations were a must in the Summer.  We traveled to many places although not necessarily with all of the children at the same time.  We traveled to the Smokie Mountains, Colonial Williamsburg, Washington DC, the upper peninsula of Michigan, Mackinac Island, Lake Placid, upper New York State and the Finger Lakes, Disney World, Yellowstone Park, Rocky Mountain National Park, Salt Lake City, and many other places too numerous to mention - each with their own memories.  Some bring back vivid memories.  One in particular was a vacation to Lake Manestique in the upper penninsula of Michigan. We rented a log cabin on the lake, which was in a compound of cabins owned by an architect friend of mine.  The setting was beautiful, but the cabin had a few problems.  The first night we had to put wood blocks under one side of the beds to keep from rolling out.  The lake was crystal clear, you could walk out to shoulder depth and still see your feet.  You could also see gobs of leeches. Fortunately we were able to avoid them, but some in other families were not as lucky.  At sunset the mosquitoes moved in  and it was impossible to enjoy the outdoors until well after dark. One of the things Patty and Jenny enjoyed most was horseback riding. This was something new and different for them. We did enjoy sticking our toes in the cold water of Lake Superior one day.													In 1963 I was beginning to see that the days of Ajax Construction Co, as a successful building contractor were numbered.  The profits were always minimal, and were getting smaller, to the point that they were diminishing completely.  The president, Carl Sinnige, and I constantly disagreed about the percentage of markup to add to our bid projects,  I always wanted a larger markup, and he a smaller one.  As a result of this, more of the work on which we were the successful bidder were losing money.  I was unhappy and determined that I must find other employment.																	I did find other employment, albeit with a temporary employment company named H.L. Yoh & Associates.  I was assigned to the Engineering Department of the Procter & Gamble Co.'s Ivorydale Technical Center (ITC).																	With the exception of my last year or eighteen months with Ajax, my association with the company was very enjoyable.  Some of the more memorable construction projects were; St. Xavier High School in Finneytown, the Alter Classroom Building on the Xavier University Campus, and the Notre Dame High School Building in Park Hills, Kentucky. These and other work helped to further my knowledge of construction and construction techniques.																						I began my tenure at Procter & Gamble in the Spring of 1964, and knew from almost the first day that the job was not for me.  The company regimentation was something that was foreign to me.  The position did afford me some travel to other P&G locations, particularly Kansas City, Missouri, and Greenbay, Wisconsin.  The company was quite generous with its travel allowances, and this was the only area where I felt that the regimentation did not apply.  One would be criticized for not taking meals in the better restaurants, even if it meant taking a cab to get there.  Before any trip I was always advised of where to eat.  Nevertheless it did provide employment and income while I searched out something more fruitful.  For almost a year and a half I scanned the Classified ads weekly, submitting resumes, going on interviews, but nothing seemed to work out														Finally my response to an ad by the University of Cincinnati bore fruit.  I was called in for an interview by the Director and Assistant Director of the Department of Physical Plant of the University.  Throughout the interview I felt that this was the place for me,  In less than a week after the interview I was offered the position of New Construction Planning Assistant.  The biggest problem was the $3500 cut in annual pay.  Norma and I discussed this and decided to tough it out, since the University had so many things to offer, and the foremost to us  was the benefit of tuition remission.  With five children to educate this was a tremendous benefit  Our immediate problem with tuition remission was that it would not apply to me until I had been with the University for five years, which was the rule at the time.																					Jay graduated from Finneytown High School in 1966, and that Fall enrolled in the University College at the University of Cincinnati  By the time Jay enrolled for his second year, the tuition remission rules were changed, and all administrative staff (in which I was included) were to receive immediate tuition remission.  This was a terrific financial boost; almost the same as receiving a pay increase.																		My father had retired from his position of Personnel Director with Dairy Pak in  Cleveland, and in 1964 he and my mother returned to Cincinnati.  They purchased a new home in Mt. Airy, a Cincinnati suburb.  It was nice 											      having them closer to us 						.														Jay graduated from University College in June, 1968, with an Associate Degree in Arts.  The following Autumn he enrolled in the College of Design, Architecture and Art (DAA) at the University of Cincinnati, majoring in architecture.  He wanted to follow in his father's footsteps.  Jay was able to transfer most of his credits to DAA, but since the study of architecture is so structured it was necessary to make up a year of architectural design.  This was accomplished by attending a summer school course in architectural design.  For whatever reason the only university offering this course was the College of Architecture at the University of Oklahoma  Although it was tough for us financially (we did not want to borrow the money) we gladly paid the tuition, transportation, books, housing, and other expenses for this Summer course.  We wanted to encourage him in his endeavors, even at the sacrifice of some of our other desires																Norma's mother died on February 28, 1969.  She had spent the last years of her life in and out of various hospitals for what was diagnosed as depression and nervous disorder.																				           		Patty graduated from Our Lady of the Angels High School in St. Bernard, Ohio in 1969.  She applied for admission to and was accepted by the College of Nursing and Health at the University of Cincinnati.  In her latter years of high school she expressed a desire to pursue a career in nursing.  She was a volunteer "Candy Striper" at Good Samaritan Hospital in Cincinnati.  She enjoyed the work, which only encouraged her desires.  Patty enrolled in the College of Nursing and Health in the Autumn of 1969.												Jenny graduated from Our Lady of the Angles High School in 1971.  She applied for and was accepted by the College of Design, Architecture and Art at the University if Cincinnati.  She selected Fashion Illustration as her major. Jenny enrolled in DAA in the Autumn of 1971.																					The year 1971 was quite a busy one for us.  Jay became engaged to Mary Alice Reindl, and on September 11, 1971 they were married at Mother of Sorrows Church in Roselawn, a Cincinnati suburb.  Jay was having academic difficulties at the University at the time, and decided to withdraw.  Because of the Viet Nam Conflict and its problems, Jay enlisted in the US Army Reserves, which helped with the military service requirements for the war.. If he had been able to remain enrolled at the University he would have maintained his military deferment.  Jay completed his basic training at Fort Polk in Louisiana, and then he remained in the Reserves until his discharge in October, 1977.												After the death of Norma's mother, we would have her father to our house for dinner at least a couple evenings a week.  We enjoyed his company, and I'm sure he enjoyed ours.  Almost three years to the day, Dad Hessler died at Providenc from a  attack.  His death occurred on February 22, 1972.															By 1972 Jenny had completed her Freshman year at DAA, and was ready to begin the College "co-op" program. In this program the student would alternate between school and work; i.e. attend classes for a quarter, and work in a related field for a quarter.  Her first job was in New York City working for a fashion illustrator on Manhattan Island.  Norma and I drove Jenny and a classmate of Jenny's to New York to help them find housing.  We accepted the hospitality of Norma's sister, Sr. Therese Martin, and stayed in her "convent" in Brooklyn Heights while we scurried about looking for suitable housing.  We did manage to find what we perceived to be a proper place to live.  It was a boarding house for women called Robert's House on Manhattan Island.  This was relatively close to where Jenny would be working, and also close to her classmate's place of employment. We're not too sure that Jenny or her friend quite accepted the environment, since on their second work quarter in New York they each found living quarters elsewhere.  The drive to and from New York was quite exciting, since it was made during the Saudi Arabian oil embargo, and the resultant rationing of gasoline.  With prudent scheduling of driving dates we were able to complete the trip both ways with very little difficulty														Jenny's first trip to New York on her own was not without difficulty.  She did not want to go by air, but rather insisted on going  by Greyhound bus.  None of us had any experience with long distance bus travel and just assumed that luggage would be handled as it would be on an airplane; that is transferred from bus to bus at transfer points.  With bus travel that is not the way it is done, as Jenny found out when she got to New York.  Her luggage was not on the bus on which she was traveling, nor could the Greyhound personnel tell her where it might be.  They were totally uncooperative, and Jenny called us in a panic, and didn't know what to do.  We felt very helpless, with she being many miles from home.  Phone calls to Greyhound were of no avail; in fact Greyhound felt that this was not their fault, but rather ours. Her luggage did arrive about two days later, but with no apology from Greyhound.  Needless to say, Jenny has not ridden the Greyhound bus system again

	Jenny continued with her co-op job in New York for two more work quarters, and then began a co-op job with US Shoe in Cincinnati.																	In the meantime, Jay, now married and having completed his military basic training wanted to re-enroll at UC and continue his desire to achieve his degree in Architecture.  He was accepted for re-enrollment and began classes in the Autumn of 1972.														Patty had completed two years at the College of Nursing and Health when she became disillusioned with the program.  She was totally unhappy and decided to withdraw, and enter the nurses training program at Good Samaritan Hospital.  Patty completed the program in the Summer of 1973 and immediately took the examination for Registered Nurse (RN) in Columbus, Ohio.  She began her nursing practice at Providence Hospital in Cincinnati.																						In the Spring of 1974 we felt that the oppressive Summer heat in this area had gotten to be too much.  We had tried window fans, and room fans, but nothing did a job of cooling in the hottest "dog days" of Summer.  We decided to "bite the bullet" and have central air-conditioning installed.  We are convinced that it was money well spent, and often wonder how we got along without it as long as we did.  One disadvantage is that it certainly isolates one from ones neighbors.            																	In early 1974 Patty became engaged to Mark Crone and on August 30, 1974 Patty and Mark were married at St. Vivian Church in Finneytown.																In 1976 both Jay and Jenny graduated from UC, Jay with a degree of Bachelor of Architecture, and Jenny with a degree of Bachelor of Arts in Fashion Design													Within a year of her graduation from UC, Jenny decided that it was time to leave "the nest".  She had acquired an apartment on Montgomery Road in Pleasant Ridge.  Our household was slowly getting smaller.																			By 1977 Susan had graduated from Our Lady of the Angles High School and that Autumn enrolled in the University of Cincinnati.  She was in the McMicken College of Arts and Sciences, majoring in Speech and Theater a Arts.																In 1978 Mary Lou had graduated from Ursuline Academy in Blue Ash and that Autumn enrolled the McMicken College of Arts and Sciences, majoring in Chemistry and Biology.  While in high school Mary Lou had expressed a desire to be a physician and was orienting her studies accordingly.																			I had heard that an organization called the Radio Reading Service was looking for volunteers.  This organization broadcast daily, reading newspapers and magazines to the blind subscribers who had special radio receivers.  My uncle, Fred Beck, who was my mothers brother, was suffering from macular degeneration, and was slowly losing his sight.  Because of his condition, I decided to audition for the position of volunteer reader.  I passed the audition and began reading portions of the Sunday Enquirer each Sunday from noon until 1:00 PM.  I convinced Uncle Fred to become a subscriber, and I continued reading weekly for two years.																				        	On May 2,1979 I received a telephone call at my office from Norma telling me that my mother had died.  She and my father had been working in their yard, and both came into the house for rest and a little nap.  My mother had died in her sleep, which was an awful shock to my father, and to the rest of the family.																Jay and Mary Alice had their first child, a daughter, on September 21, 1979.  She was named Alicia Marie.  Jay and Mary Alice were now living in a condominium in a complex called Today Homes, in Fairfield, Ohio.  Alicia was our first grandchild, and grand daughter.																		In June, 1981, Susan received her Bachelor of Arts degree from the University, and on October 10, 1981 she and John David Koza were married at the Cathedral of St. Peter in Chains, in Cincinnati.  John was from Cleveland, Ohio and as expected Susan and he moved there into an apartment.  John was associated with the Bond Court Hotel in Cleveland, and because of this association John was able to afford us with "free" hotel accommodations whenever we would visit them.																	In 1982 Mary Lou graduated from  UC, and received her Bachelor of Science degree.  In her Junior year at UC, Mary Lou was elected to Phi Beta Kappa national honorary society.  It was quite a thrill for us, but I'm not too sure how it affected Mary Lou.																							Mary Lou applied for admission to the UC College of Medicine; we had also visited Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland, but she decided to not apply for admission there.  She received approval of her application to UC, and began her Freshman year on the Autumn of 1982.  After four years of concentrated diligent work, Mary Lou graduated in the Spring of 1986 with her Doctor of Medicine degree.  She had applied for her residency training at the Washington Hospital Center in Washington, DC.  She was accepted and began her residency in the Summer of 1986.  Norma and I went to Washington with her to help find an apartment which might be relatively close to the hospital.  One lead after another turned out to be a disappointment.  We finally found the "right one" in Greenbelt, Maryland, which turned out to be about a 30 minute drive through suburban streets to the hospital.  Everyone was well pleased with this apartment (a high rise) and its location, given the Washington environment.	 														After returning home we made the necessary arrangements to move her furniture to her new apartment.  Although the quantity of furniture was sparse, it was at least sufficient for Mary Lou to begin a new life.



	On April 27, 1985 Jay and Mary Alice had their second child, a son, John Michael.  John Michael became the first son, of the first son, of the first son, of the first son, and as it will turn out, the only one of his generation to carry on the Reese name.  Jay and Mary Alice are now living on Hunter Road in Fairfield, Ohio, in a home which Jay designed.

	On April 27, 1986, one year after John Michael was born Patty and Mark were able to adopt an infant son.  This joyous occasion happened only after a long struggle with various adoption agencies.  Their new son is named Raymond Martin.  Patty and Mark were now living in Guilford, Indiana in a house they literally built by themselves.  The house was on thirteen acres of land between Guilford and Dover.																On February 20, 1987 my father died.  He was in Clovernook Nursing Home in North College Hill.  My father's problems had begun a few years previous.  He became ill with pneumonia and was admitted to Providence Hospital and later to the nursing home.  When he was admitted to the nursing home he was so weak that he had lost his ability to walk.  With the help of physical therapy and a lot of determination he regained his strength, was able to walk again, and was able to return to his home.  He hired a housekeeper, primarily to help with the cooking.  He got along fine until he fell while in the basement.   He had broken his kneecap and was taken to Providence Hospital for surgery.  Because of his diabetic condition the surgery would not heal.  My father turned down amputation as a possible solution, and as a result gangrene slowly had its effect.  															Mary Lou and Timothy Dale Inwood were married on May 9, 1987 at St. Vivian Church in Finneytown.  They both moved to Mary Lou's apartment in Greenbelt, Maryland while Mary Lou continued her residency at the Washington Hospital Center.												Mary Lou completed her residency in 1989, and after interviewing for positions at about four locations, decided to accept an offer of a partnership with a group practice in Wilmington, Ohio.  Tim and Mary Lou purchased a home south of Wilmington on Old State Road.

RETIREMENT

	I had submitted my resignation to the University in 1986, but was asked to stay for at least one more year.  I was not enjoying my work any more.  I had seen many administrative changes there, but the current staff had a totally different philosophy than what I had become used to.  The University was not a family anymore.  I finally decided that my absolutely last day would be June 30, 1987.  My friends threw a great retirement party for me at the Alumni Center on the campus.  About 75 of our closest friends attended the affair, which consisted of a fine dinner and a "roasting" by a few of my associates, all of which was captured on video tape.  As a going away gift, I was presented with a beautiful black Alumni Association presentation rocker.  The whole affair was wonderful, and very much appreciated.																	             	I often recall my years at the University of Cincinnati as some of the best years of my life.  The social life and the camaraderie of my fellow staff members was the best that I had ever experienced.																					I was involved in the greatest expansion ever of the physical facilities at the University, including the Clifton Campus, the Medical Center, and the branch campuses at Blue Ash, and Clermont County.  I was involved in all aspects of design and construction, which included over $300,000,000 in construction expenditures 															A partial list of construction projects in which I was involved in both design and constructions follows:										The Raymond Walters Branch Campus, in Blue Ash, Ohio, including the original 	building, its addition and Student Union.						The Medical Science Building.							Rhodes Hall.		        								Zimmer Auditorium									 	The Langsam Library and Parking Garage						The Brodie Science Complex							          	Lindner Hall                                                                                                                                       	Sander Hall (now razed)                                                                                                  	Holmes Hospital, its addition and remodeling                                                                       	The Clermont County Branch Campus                                                                               	The Geology/Physics Building                                                                                                   	The Cincinnati Faculty Center                                                                                                     	The Patricia Corbett Pavilion                                                                                                                 	Many remodeling and renovation projects.                                                                        	                                                                                                                                  	Mary Lou and Tim, now settled in Wilmington, presented us with our fourth grandchild, a boy named James Granville, born November 9, 1992.  Almost two years later, on October1,1994 Mary Lou gave birth to a girl named Elizabeth Bashore, our fifth grandchild and second grand daughter.																		Since my (or should I say "our") retirement Norma and I have kept ourselves quite busy.  We have done extensive traveling including annual visits with Patty , Mark, and Raymond who are now living in Port Orange, Florida.  Port Orange is just West of Daytona Beach where Patty and Mark have a beach vehicle rental business.  We also visit Susan and John who are now living in Salinas, California, which is about 15 miles East of Monterey and Carmel where both of them are employed.  We have toured many of the US National Parks, the Northeast, the Canadian Rockies, a few Caribbean Cruises, and a very enjoyable tour of Italy and Capri, including a short visit to Switzerland.  We pray that each of us remains healthy so that we are able to continue our travels, for there are many more places we would like to visit.  																											 15 January, 1993
