MEMOIR									NORMA A. (HESSLER) REESE





After much procrastination, I will try now to write down the story of the life and times of one Norma Agnes Hessler.



I was born on 11 January, 1924, the third child, and daughter, to Martin and Agnes (Mauntel) Hessler, in the home of my maternal grandmother, Louise Mauntel.  My mother and father lived with her in her home on Elizabeth Street in Mt. Healthy, Ohio until their new home was built on Adams Road, also in Mt. Healthy.  They had moved from Hamilton, Ohio, where my father was employed.  I understand from stories that were told that the weather the day I was born was very cold, and hot irons had to be put in my bed to keep me warm.  It was when I was six months old that our family moved into our new home.  The family at that time consisted of my mother and father and two older sisters, Loretta, who was then six, and Elvera who was two years old.  A fourth daughter, Martha, was born in September of 1925.



The home was a bungalow style with a living room and a very large kitchen, instead of a separate dining room, two bedrooms and one bathroom on the first floor, and an unfinished second floor.  A couch in the living room opened up to make into a bed and helped to accommodate all of us.  It was only after some children began to leave the "nest" that it became unnecessary to do so, going from a single bed to not having to use it at all..



When we were teenagers, and old enough for activities on our own, it was the incentive to not be the last one home at night, since that one had the problem of making up a bed in the living room.  I was the last one to leave the "nest", so what at one time seemed too small a house was now quite adequate



The unfinished second floor could well have been converted into three extra bedrooms, but the funds to do so were not there at the time and we made do.  Even though the second floor was not finished as far as being made into separate rooms, it was one big area for storage and for playing "house" with our dolls and other pastimes.  In good weather we had the porch to play on that stretched across the front of the house, and in the big backyard that had a large sandbox under the grape arbor.  Our house was on the northeast edge of town, with open fields and woods behind us.  We often walked along the edge of the cornfield to get to the woods and play by the creek.  We would pick the wildflowers to take home to our mother.  It was such an innocent time, and security never seemed a problem.



For a long time the street in front of our house was not paved, but eventually this was taken care of allowing for a good place to play games such as baseball with our friends in the neighborhood.  We also liked to roller-skate and since we lived at the top of the hill, the street and the sidewalk were great for this.  Just more work coming back up.  Sled riding in the winter was good too.  Naturally there were not the number of automobiles as there are today.



When we were a little older we got our first bicycle for the four of us.  This made it much easier going "uptown" to the grocery store for our Mother, although we walked many times.  This was about a half mile.  My Grandma and Grandpa Hessler lived on Hamilton Avenue, north of Adams Road, on a few acres of land, and about six blocks from our house.  They had a barn and chickens, and grew many of their own vegetables.  Grandma also liked growing flowers.  We did enjoy visiting there and having the extra space to run around.



At our own house my Father had a small garden especially for growing tomatoes and strawberries.  Also, there were grape arbors that provided Mom with grapes to make jelly, but also for Dad to make wine and grape juice.  We also had peach and plum trees.  It really was a lot to keep up with in the summer with all the canning, but filling up the shelves down in the "fruit cellar" must have been a rewarding accomplishment.



The Great Depression of 1930, when I was six years old, must have been a very difficult time for my Mother and Father, as it was for a lot of people.  My Father was laid off from his work as a machinist for two an one half years.  It was during this time that my Mother had to go back to work in one of the tailor shops in Mt. Healthy where she had worked as a young girl.  My Father also sold merchandise from door to door to help make ends meet.  He also found employment with the WPA ( Works Progress Administration), a government run program to put people back to work.  Eventually things did get turned around, and my Father was able to acquire full time employment.



One thing I especially remember during that time when so many people were without work, was going to the American Legion Hall in Mt. Healthy at Christmas to pick a toy with the other children in town.  I came home with a cute little doll.  That meant a lot, since it was the only gift we would have received that Christmas.  We may not have had a lot, but what we had, we truly appreciated.  It did, I suppose, teach us to be frugal.  I can't say that I felt, in any way, deprived, since many people were in the same situation.  Growing up, instead, feeling very self confident in school, and making many friends.



We were parishioners of the Church of the Assumption in Mt. Healthy where we also attended grade school.  It was only about three blocks from home, but it seemed further.  When it would still be a little dark in the morning, and I would be walking by myself on Martin Street on my way to Mass before school, I would see the Morning Star and offer a prayer to the Blessed Virgin Mary, a reference to her in the Litany to the Blessed Mother.  I have a feeling that it started my lifetime devotion to Mary the Mother of Jesus.



I liked school and the nuns who were our teachers.  They lived near school, and we would often walk with them to their home.  My favorite teacher was Sister Laura, who I had in the sixth and seventh grades.  She was probably in her twenties, and no doubt it was her first teaching experience.  Sister Leon in the fifth grade was the most strict, and we all pretty much toed the line.  Sister Eloise was our eighth grade teacher, and our class was the largest in the history of the school.  We were a close knit group, and enjoyed good times together, and many friendships continued into high school and beyond.



It was in the eighth grade that some of us decided to take dancing lessons that were being offered one night a week at the public school.  We learned ballroom dances and also the "Big Apple", a dance craze at the time.  We could always count on being called up to the desk of Sister Eloise the morning after a dance lesson, for a lecture.  For whatever reason she just didn't think that dancing was proper.  Our parents, however, could see no objection so we continued to go to the lessons.



After graduating from the eighth grade most of my class went on to the public high school in Mt. Healthy.  The archdiocesan high school assigned to our parish was in downtown Cincinnati, and for the times the tuition was too expensive for the majority of students from Assumption School.  Besides my older sisters were attending Mt. Healthy High School, so it was only logical that I also attend.  It was a good walk to school from our house, but meeting friends half way made it fun.  I guess we all felt very "grown up" to be going to high school, and experiencing class changes and more serious courses.  History, English, and Literature were my favorite subjects.  How I ever got through Algebra and Geometry I'll never know, but thankfully I did.  Home Economics was also a favorite course, and it taught the basics that are so important in life.  There was always a fashion show at the end of the school year to show off what we had made.  The assignment one year was to make a child's outfit.  Not having any close relatives of my own who would qualify, Mrs. Hodapp, the teacher, suggested that I make a baby blanket with a corner cap and added embroidery.  As luck would have it, when it came time for the fashion show, I carried the new born baby of one of the teachers.  He and his wife, Mr. and Mrs. Muskoft, lived across the street from the school, so it was most convenient.  Mr. Muskoft , our math teacher, was one of the most liked teachers in the school, so it made a big hit with everyone.



I was not involved in sports except for the Girls Athletic Association, and holding subsequent offices of secretary, treasurer, vice president and as president in my senior year.  We had sports activities, but much of it was in the way of social activities and charitable endeavors.  Ice skating in the winter was very popular, and hiking and horseback riding other times of the year.  Most seniors were in the Spotlight Club, ending the year with the theatrical production of  "June Mad".  Patricia Porter and I shared the leading role in the two night run of the play, taking the role of Penny.



As a senior class project, we went to downtown Cincinnati to see "Gone With the Wind" at the Albee Theater (now replaced by the Westin Hotel).  It must have been deemed very important by our history or literature teacher at the time, but everyone enjoyed getting to see it.



Our social activities were confined to our immediate area, with basketball and football games, and school dances.  The dances would be held on Saturday nights, three or four times a year, and most always with "live" orchestras that played "big band" music of the times.  North College Hill High School would also have these kind of dances, and our group of friends was expanded to include them also.  How we traveled that far I really don't remember.  I guess boys started driving automobiles earlier back then.  I know we would go to Handle Bar Ranch, which was in Colerain Township, for hay rides and bicycle riding, and to Mt. Healthy Airport (which is where Northgate Mall is now located).  I took my first airplane ride out of this airport, in an open cockpit two seater biplane  My boyfriend at the time had a friend who owned a plane and I was invited to take a ride. We flew over my parents' house, and it was all very exciting.



Another popular pastime in the winter was ice skating.  Since all of the lakes in our area were located in the southwest corner of Mt. Healthy, it was a good walk from our house on Adams Road, but I guess we didn't mind.  It was a good way to get together with friends, and a sport that lasted many years.  All in all, growing up in a small town, the way it was then, was something very special.



I graduated from high school in 1942, holding the office of secretary of the senior class, and went immediately to Southern Ohio Business College.  I had applied, and had been tested for a stenographic position with the US Government before leaving high school.  Our shorthand and typing teacher had taken anyone interested down to the government office to be tested.  After only one month at business school, I was offered a job as a stenographer with the Home Owners Loan Corporation (HOLC), a branch of the US Government.  I was one of about twelve people in the Tax Department under a Mr. Eugene Hale.  The position paid $30.00 a week, which was five dollars more a week than my older sisters were making at the time.  It was a great place to start out, and I made many friends, some lifelong.  Many years later we renewed these friendships, and six of us now gather once a month for lunch.  We call ourselves the HOLC Group.



The Home Owners Loan Corporation offices were located in what was known as the Telephone Building at Seventh and Elm Streets in downtown Cincinnati.  The most popular means of transportation into the city from Mt. Healthy was the Ohio Bus Line Company, going by way of Hamilton Avenue and Central Parkway.  There were many times when the bus was so full it meant standing all the way into town.  For a long time there also were street cars that served our area, with tracks running down the middle of Hamilton Avenue.  The schedule and route were not good, and it meant transferring to a bus at Knowlton's Corner.  The walk from our house to Hamilton Avenue to get the bus was about five blocks, also our house being described as up on the second hill.  It was not unusual to make this trip to the bus line in high heels, and if for some reason an evening meeting or program was taking place after work, it meant taking a late bus, and walking home in the dark.  The only fear I can remember is encountering the big Chow dog belonging to neighbors two doors from  us.  I was always glad when I could get by without his seeing me.



Summer went along doing the usual things and getting together with friends until December 7, 1941 when Pearl Harbor was attacked, and our country entered World War II.  It wasn't long before many of the boys in town either enlisted or were drafted into some military service.  My boyfriend enlisted in the Air Force in pilot training, eventually becoming a second lieutenant.  It was a long separation, with few furloughs, and only correspondence to keep in touch.  It made for a test of any lifetime commitment.



My sister, Loretta, at this time was in a business girls  sorority, Beta Sigma Phi, and encouraged m to join a new chapter that was being formed in the Cincinnati area, which I did.  Meetings were held each month in the Sinton Hotel on Walnut Street downtown, which of course is no longer there.  I joined in 1943, and took on the duties of Chairman of the Publicity Committee.  Beside our usual meetings, and various programs, we would also have dances periodically at the hotel, inviting any armed service personnel that cared to attend.  Belonging to a sorority helped fill the void at the time, and many friendships were made, some, also, lasting a lifetime.



In 1945 I decided to go to Airline School in Kansas City, Missouri in the hope of becoming an airline stewardess, but without a college degree, or nurses training  would have had to be in reservations somewhere.  This did not appeal to me, and when I came home to be a bridesmaid in my boyfriend's sister's wedding, I decided not to return to airline school.



It was then that I interviewed for a secretarial position with Revere Copper and Brass in their regional office in the Carew Tower in downtown Cincinnati.  It was not a big office, with only the Regional Manager, two inside salesmen, and three secretaries.  There were also two outside salesmen who appeared once or twice a week.  The office was on the 26th floor, with a nice view of the city.  Everyone in the office was very nice, although the Regional Manager, Mr. Riegler was quite strict, and everything had to be just so.  One of my duties was contacting the home office in Rome, New York via the teletype machine.  Looking back it was somewhat like our e-mail chatline today.



World War II was now coming to a close, and friends were returning home.  My friend in the Air Force decided to make the Armed Services a lifetime career, and after a short visit home, was given an assignment in Germany.  I decided it was best for me to rethink my own future, and what I wanted most in life.  So for another year, the correspondence continued off and on, but in making new friends and dating a few, it helped me to sort out my thoughts.



It was at this time in my life that I became acquainted, through mutual friends, with a fine young man by the name of John J. Reese from Lockland, Ohio, and an architectural student at the University of Cincinnati.  We talked on the phone every day for over a week before we met for the first time on June 15, 1946, our first date.  We went to a restaurant called Alpine Inn for dinner and dancing with three other couple, a group stemming from a poker club the fellows belonged to and for some, their connection at college.  We had a good time and enjoyed each others company.  The music was fine and I was impressed with Jack's dancing ability.  But more important than that was our having so many things in common to talk about and conversation came easily.



So things got off to a fine start except, of course, for the sailor at the next table spilling beer down my pretty blue dress.  But it didn't dampen our spirits and everything worked out fine.  We continued seeing each other exclusively, and by Christmas we became engaged.



We wanted to be married on June 14 of the next year at Assumption Church in Mt. Healthy, to complete our year of courtship.  But as luck would have it the date was already taken.  In those days only one wedding Mass could be scheduled on any given day, so we had to decide on another date.  We chose July 5th, with the thought in mind that the holiday weekend would allow more time for the out-of-town relation to travel.



We made all our arrangements and chose our attendants.  Both my sisters Loretta and Elvera were expecting their first child in a few months, so were uncomfortable being in the wedding party.  I then chose a cousin from Detroit, Marie Grace Hessler, to be my Maid of Honor, and two dear friends, Mary Rodden and Mary Cowles for bridesmaids.  Jack chose his brother Charles to be the Best Man, and a cousin, Bob Reese as a second witness.



It was a busy time and very special.  Apartments were difficult to find because of the shortage due to the war, and we looked at many that were just not what we would want.  A girl working at Wizard Weavers, next to the Revere Copper and Brass Regional Office where I worked in the Carew Tower in downtown Cincinnati, heard of our dilemma and suggested we take a look at an apartment that she and her husband were vacating because of a new home purchase.  It was a two room furnished apartment on the third floor of an older home in Covington, Kentucky, owned by her aunt.  We liked what we saw, and for $55.00 a month we knew it was the nicest we had seen.  So we put an advance payment on it, and with my working in downtown Cincinnati and Jack in Bond Hill, we knew transportation would work out fine.



Our wedding took place July 5, 1947, at Assumption Church in Mt. Healthy, Ohio, the church I had attended since early childhood.  Jack's parish priest from St. James Church in Wyoming, Ohio, Father Leo M. Walsh celebrated the Mass and wedding ceremony for us.  Father Sieve, our parish priest at Assumption Church, had a prior commitment for that day, which of course was a big disappointment, especially to my parents.  Other than that everything went fine, and the weather was beautiful.  After the Mass our limousine driver took us for a ride through town so townspeople could wave to us. Its what happens in a small town.  The  wedding party, both parents, Grandma and Grandpa Reese, and Father Walsh, then proceeded to my parents' home for brunch and picture taking.



In the afternoon the entire bridal party went to Dayton, Ohio, via limousine to visit my sister, Sr. Therese Martin (Martha) who was not able to come to the wedding because of her religious order's restrictions at the time.  We came home in time for a scheduled dinner at Forest View Gardens, and our reception at the Mt. Airy Civic Club.  We spent our first night together at the Mariemont Inn, and after Mass and breakfast the next morning we left on our honeymoon to the Wisconsin Dells and the Upper Peninsula of Michigan   It was the first time for me to experience that part of the country, and it was exciting  and the scenery was beautiful.  When we saw the Grand Hotel on Mackinac Island we decided some day we were going to come back and stay in the hotel.  Which we did.  In July of 1992 as part of our 45th wedding anniversary celebration, we went to Mackinac Island; which could only be reached by ferry; and enjoyed the luxury of staying at the Grand Hotel for four days.  So even though it took 45 years, it was well worth the wait and most enjoyable.



We continued to live at our apartment in Covington through January, but with our first baby expected in six months, the steps to the third floor were presenting a problem with miscarriage.  We were fortunate to find an apartment in Mt. Healthy on the first floor.  It was on Perry Street, next to a cemetery. Nice quiet neighbors.  There was also a small patio.  It was important that I learn how to drive, and Jack was most patient.



Even though the apartment was quite small, with only one bedroom, it was plenty adequate for our needs at the time.  Since the apartment in Covington was furnished, we needed to make our new furniture purchases.  To this day we still have the bedroom furniture we bought then in our home today after some fifty years.  Granted it has been relocated to another bedroom, with the purchase of our more traditional Williamsburg style furniture that we have in our bedroom now.  The first bedroom set was very contemporary, and a sign of the time then. But it has held up well and has remained most useable.



For the living room furniture we selected  a three piece upholstered sectional sofa with a big square tiered table and lamp, making for a corner arrangement.  Jack's Mom and Dad gave us a  porcelain tilt top kitchen table that had been in the family for a long time.  It really worked out fine and was used for a long time .  The top flipped over to double the size, which of course came in very handy as our family increased.  To this day we still have our original refrigerator that we bought back then, and now used in our rathskeller as our second refrigerator.  It is still going strong.  We also needed to purchase the needed nursery furniture for our upcoming blessed event, getting the crib, bathinette, highchair, play pen, etc., etc.  We were really going to be ready.



Our son, John Carlton (Jay) was born June 27, 1948, at Good Samaritan Hospital.  My sister, sister Therese Martin, was at the hospital at the time and was able to assist in the delivery.  She was very happy and excited to carry Jay immediately out to the waiting room for Jack to see his new son.  She will always remember that she was able to do this.  Jack and I felt blessed that we had a very healthy and normal baby  At that time women stayed a week in the hospital after delivery which is so different now.  After leaving the hospital we stayed a few days with Mom and Dad Hessler to help us get started on this awesome trip of being parents.  With renewed confidence we settled into our own place, and doted on our son and enjoyed being a little family.  Gradually sleeping all night became a luxury, and finding new and inventive ways for making mealtime a joy, made things go along nicely



Within six months we were celebrating Christmas with all the special things that go along with being a little threesome.  It was new, different and fun.  There would also be Christmas Eve get-togethers at Mom and Dad Hessler's, and now with three little grandchildren; Roger, son of Loretta and E. Wilbur Nieman, Debby, daughter of Al and Elvera Berger, and our son, Jay; was the start of a new generation in the family.  It was nice they were all about the same age, and could enjoy playing together as they grew a little older.



In June of 1949, Jay celebrated his first birthday with, of course, a little cake set before him as he sat in his highchair.  He did a great job of pushing it off onto the floor, and giving a great look of glee on his face.  This tradition with the first birthday cake continued down through the years with all of the children, some of which are recorded in

our movies.



Now that many of us in Beta Sigma Phi were leaving the business world to marry and start our families, we were no longer interested in attending meetings but wanted to keep in touch.  About eight of  us decided we would  get together once a month on the last Wednesday for lunch and cards at each other's houses.  We played Canasta, which was a popular card game at the time, and not so serious that we couldn't talk and have a good time.  We lost a few along the way for various reasons, but they were replaced with friends that were not in sorority.  We went from daytime get-togethers to nighttime because of a few returning to the professional world, and then much later back to daytime because of the problem of driving at night, especially in bad weather, since we did not all live in one locality.  We also had parties together in the summer with our husbands and children, and Christmas parties for couples only.  In later years when our children were older and on their own we would spend weekends together on short trips out of town.  It has been a good group.



We knew we wanted to increase the size of our family, so in the spring of 1950 we  started looking around at houses to see what would be available that we could afford.  We discovered a development of Pease Homes in Finneytown off North Bend Road being built by Allen Paul.  We liked the three bedroom, L-shaped model, with a dining room, for $11,000.  So many houses we saw were selling for $13,500, which at that time seemed like a huge difference.  We decided to purchase this three bedroom style house and chose a lot in the second block near the cul-de-sac of the two block street.



We moved into our house on Ridgefield Drive (6640) that summer, and soon made friends with our immediate neighbors, and many others further up the street.  It was the first house for many of us, and everyone it seemed had a lot in common.  We not only enjoyed the get-togethers and picnics in the backyards, but as the children grew older, the many birthday parties.  At Christmas time the children would parade down the street, holding lighted candles, and singing Christmas carols.  They would then gather around a Christmas tree in the cul-de-sac and visit with Santa Claus.  It was really a nice street to live on.
