A VISIT FROM ST. NICK



Twas the night before Christmas and all through the house

Not a creature was stiring not even a louse



The stocckings were hung by the chimney with care,

For they had been worn for six months and needed some air.



The children were nestled all snug in their beds,

For they had worn themselves out ridding their sleds



And Mamma in her kerchief and I in my cap

Were sitting on the sofa having a night cap.



When out on the lawn there arose such a clatter.

It sounded like someone had fallen off a ladder.



Away to the window I flew like a flash,

Thinking I would see someone running off with our cash.



The moon on the breast of the new fallen snow

Made it look so wierd , I just didn't know.



When what to my wondering eye should appear

But a white bearded guy with a sleigh and some deer



With a little old driver so lively and quick

In this kind of weather, he had to be sick



More rapid than eagles his coursers they came

He whistled and shouted, and called them wierd names



"Now , Dasher and Dancer, now Prancer and Vixen,

On Comet, On Cupid, On Donder and Blitzen.



To the top of the porch. To the top of the wall

How did he do that, and not even fall



As dry leaves that before the wild hurricane fly

I thought that this guy surely would die



So up to the house top the coursers they flew

I thought, what is this old man up to











And then in a twinkling I heard on the roof

A lot of noise. What is it with  this old goof



As I drew in my head and was turning around

He had come down our chimney without a sound



He was dressed all in fur from his head to his foot

But he sure looked a mess, the old bearded coot



A bundle of toys he had flung on his back

How did he get down the chimney with that big sack



His eyes how they twinkled, his dimples how merry

He looked like he had already hit the bottle of brandy (wild cherry)



His droll little mouth was drawn up loke a bow

From hitting that brandy, I really think so



The stump of a pipe he held tight in his teeth

When he talked he had a lisp in his speach.



He had a broad face and a round little belly

Looked like he had too much peanut butter and jelly.



He was chubby and plump, a right jolly old elf

Might really  belong on a toy store shelf



A wink of his eye and a twist of his head

Made me really glad the kids were in bed



He spoke not a word but went straight to his work

But when he saw those stockings, he began to smirk



And with his fingers he covered his nose

He said, "no way I'll touch those"



Out the door to his sleigh, to his team gave a whistle

And away they flew like a shot from a pistol



But I heard him exclaim ere he drove out of sight,

.Happy Christmas to all and to all a good night
