Childhood
I was born November 1, 1921, son of Charles H. Reese (aka Carl E. Reese) and Eleonor (Beck) Reese. I was born in the home of my maternal grandmother, Elizabeth (Gecks) Beck, at 3925 Llewellyn Street in the area of Cincinnati known as Cumminsville. My mother was attended at birth by a midwife, which was most common in those days. My brother Charles H. Reese, Jr. was also born at the same address through the aid of a midwife. My youngest brother, Donald E. Reese was the only one of us born in a hospital. His birth occurred at Good Samaritan Hospital in the area of Cincinnati called Clifton.
My parents purchased their first house shortly after marriage. The house was new and at 324 Westview Avenue in Lockland, Ohio. Lockland was (is) a village north of Cincinnati. It was not large, since one could walk easily from one side to the other in about one half hour. The village was almost divided from north to south by the then Miami-Erie Canal, and was bordered on the east and west sides by railroads. On the east side was what was then the New York Central Railroad, and on the west the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad. Almost in the center of town was a set of locks controlling the elevation and flow of the canal. This is how the town, Lockland, was named: the land of the locks.
Lockland was primarily an industrial community. There were a number of manufacturing plants such as the Richardson Paper Co., the Fox Paper Co., Security Bag, the Phillip Carey Co., the Sterns and Foster Mattress Co. plus some smaller industries. Many of these industries settled in the area because of the canal, its transportation access, and availability of water. Many of these industries required vast quantities of water for manufacturing processes. My father was employed by the Richardson Paper Co.
This was the only home that I knew through my childhood and up to the time of my marriage to Norma Hessler. The house was a two bedroom bungalow, typical of the houses built in the early 1920’s. It consisted of a living room, dining room, and kitchen on the first floor, and two bedrooms and a bathroom on the second floor. There was a broad porch across the front and a smaller porch across the back. The house was quite adequate for our family of five. The front porch was a great place to play during a summer rain, provided that the wind was not blowing from the West. We kids thought it was a great place to view a summer lightning storm. The house had central coal fired gravity heat, which made for great temperature fluctuations during the winter. There was no thermostat to regulate heat, only a hand operated damper to regulate the combustion air to the furnace. If you were cold you opened the damper, if you were hot, you close it. Of course it is assumed that a supply of coal had been shoveled into the furnace.
We did not have air conditioning for the summer (which was quite normal for the times), and which made for many uncomfortable nights during the extremely hot and humid spells; of which we have many in this area of Ohio. Thinking back one wonders how we made it without the luxuries which are considered necessities today. The refrigeration for food was an “ice box” in the kitchen. The “ice man” delivered a block of ice every day in the Summer, and maybe every other day in the Winter; because in the Winter everyone used a “window box” to keep food fresh. A “window box” was just that, a metal box hung in a kitchen window opening, and with a hinged door opening toward the interior of the house. The cold Winter air kept the food fresh. And laundry was done in a washing machine with a hand driven “wringer” to extract the water from the clothing, and then hung outdoors to dry in the breeze. And these things were luxuries, since not everyone had things so good.
Of course in those “good old days”, we all had our chores to do, whether after school or during summer vacations. In the winter there was making sure that the furnace had enough coal. And of course before winter my father would order coal, which was dumped in a pile in the street in front of the house, and which my brothers and I had to transport by wheel barrow to be dumped into the coal bin through a basement window. Every spring the carpets in the house had to be hung on a line in the back yard and be beaten to remove the winter accumulation of dirt. Our mother would warn us to not beat the rugs too hard for fear that our neighbors would see how dirty the carpets were. Of course we boys would see just how hard we could beat them just to see the dirt fly. For a few years during the depths of the Depression our father had a garden plot near the Mill Creek, about a block from home, in which he planted vegetables such as potatoes, corn, green beans, tomatoes, and cabbage. We all spent numerous hours hoeing, weeding, watering, and finally harvesting the crops. Our mother also spent numerous hours canning the produce, which we all benefited from during the winter. None of us complained about these chores, since they were a necessary part of our life.
I attended Kindergarten at Lockland School, located on North Cooper Avenue about a half mile from our house. The first semester I was in the morning session and the second semester I was in the afternoon session. My teacher was Miss Baker, whom I remember as a very nice lady, sort of a grandmother type, although she was probably not a day over thirty at the time.

