Holiday Greetings Everyone,
As is said - where did the year go. It seems that at our age the world is whizzing by faster and faster. Like everyone we hope and pray the problems in Iraq will soon be over and peace could return in the world. We feel very fortunate and very blessed to be able to enjoy life the way we do and have a close and loving family. With Mary and Jay in Fairfield, Jenny in Kenwood and Mary Lou and Tim in Wilmington and their families, we are able to have our get-togethers and celebrations quite often. Telephoning and e-mails help to keep in touch with Pat and Mark in Mukilteo, Washington, and Susan and John in Salinas. California. We feel fortunate too, that we have many longtime friends we still get together with regularly each month. So with our usual routine and other interests, it helps to keep us moving.
One of our special blessings this year was the birth of our first great-grandchild in January. She is the daughter of our grand daughter Alicia and her husband Brandon. She is in the crawling stage now, but we won’t be surprised to see her walking before she is a year old. There have been four living generations in our family for five generations. We have a photograph of Jack’s father with his mother, grandmother and great-grandfather.. It has to be good genes.
This past Summer our grandson, Raymond, graduated from Kamiack High School in Mukilteo, Washington. Ray is the son of our daughter Pat and her husband Mark. We flew to Seattle, and spent a great week visiting with Pat, Mark and Ray, plus all the points of interest near and around Mukilteo. For further excitement, we spent a short time at a Bed and Breakfast on Whidby Island (part of a Christmas gift from our children last Christmas). It was our first experience with a B & B, and it was wonderful.
Then our daughter, Susan, called from California, telling us that she will be attending a conference in Indianapolis, and would it be possible for us to drive there for a weekend visit. Of course we jumped at the chance, and had a great time visiting, sightseeing, and dining.
Our travel days are getting pretty well restricted and we prefer shorter motor trips or an occasional air trip to the west coast. So international travels are almost over. Those we have taken are well remembered; Italy, Switzerland, Netherlands, Germany, Austria, Ireland, and the British Isles. We are glad we did what we did. Future journeys will probably be domestic, since there still are a few places we haven’t visited here in the States. The only State we haven’t visited is Oregon. That’s weird, since we have children in California and Washington. Maybe we can make that some day.
We wish you a Blessed Christmas, and a Healthy, Happy and Prosperous  New Year.

