College
I knew that I wanted to go on to college after high school, as I had developed an interest in architecture about my sophomore or junior year. The high school offered no curriculum that could guide me. There were no art classes or even mechanical drawing classes. I oriented my courses around math, physics and chemistry so that I could be assured of meeting the requirements for admission to college. Since I would be the first in my family to attend a college or university, I was pretty much flying on my own. Somehow I managed to make the grade. My application for admission to the University of Cincinnati, School of Applied Arts was accepted and I looked forward to beginning classes in the Autumn of 1939.
My first day of classes at the University was quite an experience. Most of my classes were scheduled in the Engineering Quadrangle which consisted of Swift Hall, Baldwin Hall, and the Chemistry Building. My first class was World History and was scheduled in Baldwin Hall. Not knowing anything about the geography of the campus, I was thoroughly lost as to the location of Baldwin Hall. After asking a few questions I finally located Baldwin Hall and the proper classroom, but only after the lecture had started. I was embarrassed walking into the lecture, but was further embarrassed by the professor with a lecture about being on time. The entire class learned that from then on no one should enter the classroom after the lecture has started and the classroom door was closed. Unfortunately today these disciplinary measures do not exist.
I was rushed for a fraternity early in my freshman year. The fraternity was Phi Kappa, a Catholic fraternity, with its house located on the south side of University Avenue opposite Woodside Place. The house has been razed and the University Bookstore now occupies the site. After attending a few parties, luncheons and dinners I elected not to join because of the cost. The country was still experiencing the Depression and neither I nor my parents had the money.
A friend who I had met during my early days at UC asked if I wanted to accompany him and his mother for Christmas break in Miami, Florida. His father lived in Florida each winter because of health conditions. My parents were very reluctant to agree to this, since one was simply not gone from home on the Christmas holidays. But after they met his mother, they agreed, and we were off on our Florida adventure. Thinking back my parents were very generous in allowing me to take this trip. With three drivers we drove straight through from Cincinnati to Miami, and this was before modern expressways. We had a good time sailing (which I had never done before), visiting various sights, and picking oranges. Although spending Christmas with a family other than mine did seem very strange. My friend left UC after his freshman year, and I totally lost contact with him.
After the completion of my freshman year I had to find employment for the summer in order to earn money for tuition, books, and other expenses for the following year. In 1940 the United States was still trying to recover from the Great Depression, and employment in an architect’s office was difficult to impossible to find. Our pastor at St. James Church in Wyoming, Ohio attempted to use his influence with a Cincinnati architect, Edward Schulte, to help me with an interview. The Schulte firm had designed the new church and school for St. James parish. I did get an interview with Edward Schulte but was not accepted for employment for a number of reasons, primarily the lack of experience on my part, but also the lack of work on the part of the architect.
I did find employment, through the help of my father, at the Gardner Richardson Paper Company, in Lockland, Ohio. My starting pay was 45 cents per hour which related to $18.00 per week. That doesn’t sound like much today, but there were families living on wages like that during the Great Depression, and they didn’t consider themselves poverty stricken. I held a number of jobs while at Gardner Richardson, working in the board mill shipping department, unloading box cars filled with scrap paper and pulp board, loading beaters and working on paper making machines. It was hot work and very physical, but I survived.
The School of Applied Arts at the University of Cincinnati was in the co-op system. This was a system whereby a student alternated between work and study. Each student in the system would attend classes for 13 weeks and work 13 weeks. Each student would have an "alternate" who was to replace him for the work quarter. My "alternate" at the paper mill was a friend, John Sloniker, who was also studying architecture. I elected to begin my class session in the Winter quarter, which meant that John would begin classes in the Autumn quarter. It also meant that I would continue to work through the Autumn quarter enabling me to earn and save more money toward tuition.
The work/school co-op situation worked fine. I was able to save enough money each quarter of work to pay for tuition, books, and other expenses during the class quarter. I continued with Gardner Richardson through my pre-junior year. I was earning far more than any of my classmates, but I was not having any practical architectural experience.
In the Autumn of 1941 I heard of an engineering firm from Chicago that had set up an office in Reading, Ohio. This firm; Alvord, Burdick and Howson; had a contract with the Defense Department to plan a well field and water pipeline from Hamilton, Ohio to the Wright Aeronautical Aircraft Engine Plant (now the General Electric Company) in Evendale, Ohio, and to install a well field and pumping station to provide the water. I was interviewed and was successful in obtaining a job as a draftsman and field survey assistant. This work was very enjoyable in that I worked with the field survey crew for a few days, and then I would return to the office to translate the survey notes into drawings.
This work lasted through the Autumn of 1941, at which time I was fortunate to gain employment with the US Geological Survey. The USGS had an office in the same building as Alvord, Burdick and Howson, and was working on the same project. My title with the USGS was Hydrographic Technician, which meant that I drew underground water level maps of the well field area in Hamilton.

