Today we are here to remember and celebrate the life of Norma Hessler Reese. Born to Martin and Agnes Hessler in January 11, 1924 she grew up with her parents and three sisters through the difficult times of the Great Depression.
After World War II she met the man of her dreams and married him. Jack and Norma Reese had lives and a marriage we can all admire and should wish to emulate. They lived the quintessential American dream. Devoted to one another and deeply in love all the years they were together it was all one could ever hope for.
They have five children they loved and were very proud of: Jay, Patty, Jenny, Susan and Mary Lou. They opened their hearts and welcomed Mary Alice, Mark, Chris, John and myself to their family.
They adored their Grandchildren Alicia, John Michael, Ray, James and Elizabeth and Norma was blessed to live long enough to see Great Grandchildren Belle, Daniel and Brady.
Mom was always Mom through out these last difficult months. When we would visit she was always worried for our comfort. Embarrassed that she had a food tray and we did not she would offer things off the tray and then tell us if we would just let her know before hand that we were coming she would have had something prepared for us.
Norma was happiest when surrounded by her family, to whom she was devoted. She never quite got over losing Jack. He was the love of her life. Dad Reese passed away the day after Easter 2006, and against the odds and medical science, Mom did the same 9 years later.
Frankly I don’t think this was an accident of fate. I think she and God timed her passing as a reminder that God is with us daily and as a message of Love and Hope that is tied to our faith. The medical odds were against her making it to the sixth of April, but she managed just the same. It’s not surprising that Mom and Dad passed away so close to Easter. Devout in their faith, Mom and Dad very much believed in the resurrection of our souls.
Weep not for Mom. In recent months with her illness she spoke often of wanting to go to Heaven, to be with God and Dad Reese. She is where she wants to be today, reunited with her love and her heavenly creator.
Today, though I miss her and can’t help but mourn her loss from our presence, I have to be happy for her as she is where she wants to be. So I ask all of you to pray for her soul and celebrate her wonderful life with that in mind. I thank you all for prayers for our family and for being here with us today.
- Timothy Dale Inwood, husband to Mary Lou (Reese) Inwood
