Our Family
In November, 1947 we found we would be expecting our first child in June of the following year. Norma’s obstetrician told us that climbing steps to a third floor apartment was not in Norma’s best interest. We began our search for another apartment, preferably one on the first floor. Through sheer luck we found an apartment at 7362 Perry Street in Mt. Healthy, Ohio. It was on the first floor of a former tailor shop which was being remodeled into four apartments. We were able to move into this new facility because Norma’s sister, Loretta, and her husband were on the waiting list for one of the apartments, but were able to find another apartment elsewhere in Mt. Healthy. We acquired their spot on the waiting list and were able to move in as soon as the apartment was completed, in early March, 1948.
About this time I determined that my current salary at Burton-Rogers would not be sufficient to support our upcoming family. I interviewed for a position with the architectural firm of Samuel Hannaford & Sons located in the Dixie Terminal Building in Cincinnati. I was fortunate in being selected and began working in April, 1948 for the magnificent salary of $65.00 per week. This was grand enough to enable Norma to resign her position with Revere Copper and Brass, and we could live fairly comfortably on my salary alone. Additionally I was able to ride a bus to town every day, and save the expense of driving our car.
Our first child; a son, John Carlton Reese; was born on June 27, 1948. I remember the seemingly endless wait in the “expectant fathers waiting room” at Good Samaritan Hospital. About a month prior to delivery, Norma suffered an accident with a pressure cooker. She had tried to open it too soon and the steam scalded her abdomen to the point that her obstetrician thought that she might lose our baby. It was quite a relief to be informed that she had delivered a perfectly normal, healthy baby boy. Sister Therese Martin was at Good Samaritan Hospital at the time, and had assisted in the delivery. Quite a thrill for her (and us).
After the usual five day stay in the hospital, I brought Norma and our son home to our apartment. Our apartment neighbors said that they never heard Jay cry at night, but we knew that they were being kind, since our apartment walls and ceiling transmitted sound quite well. Our little family grew up in that small one bed room Mt. Healthy apartment. We matured in many ways; learning how to be parents, teaching Jay how to walk and talk, learning how to cope with staying home on Saturday night, and learning how to share our lives.
In the Fall of 1948 my father was transferred to Cleveland, Ohio. He had been assigned as Plant Manager of a new paper milk bottle manufacturer called Dairy-Pak. My parents sold their home in Lockland, and purchased a new home in Parma, Ohio, a suburb of Cleveland. This became our Summer vacation spot for quite a few years, primarily because it was a chance to visit my parents and show off their grandchild, but it also provided free food and lodging.
During the Summer of 1949 we decided that our prime goal was to become home owners. We had managed to save a small sum of money for a downpayment. It seemed that every little home we looked at had the same unaffordable (to us) price of $13,500.00. Then one day we saw a new subdivision being developed off North Bend Road in Springfield Township (Finneytown). We looked at the model homes and found that a three bed room could be purchased for the unbelievable price of $11,000.00. We could hardly believe it. Now we could afford to buy our own home. All we needed was a financial boost. Norma’s parents agreed to lend us the $500.00 we needed to get over the hump. We signed the necessary purchase agreement papers and we were on our way to the American dream - home ownership.
Through the Winter of 1949 and the Spring of 1950 we watched our home at 6640 Ridgefield Drive rise out of the ground. In the Summer of 1950 we moved into our new three bedroom home. It looked like a castle to us. In the Autumn of 1950 Norma told me that we were going to have an increase in our family. My position with Samuel Hannaford & Sons continued strong. By now I was earning about $100.00 per week, the old Chevrolet was nine years old; so it was time for a “new” car. We bought a 1949 Ford sedan. It was also time for Norma to learn to drive.
With perseverance on both of our parts she mastered the clutch and “stick shift” and before long we had a second, but pregnant, driver in the family. With my using public transportation to my daily work. Norma had the car at her disposal, and her driving gave her daily freedom. Our second child, Patricia Ann was born in Good Samaritan Hospital on May 18, 1951. We are now beginning to fill up those three bed rooms.
We continue to take our Summer vacations in Cleveland visiting my parents, only now I am beginning to wonder whether we aren’t exceeding the limits of my parents generosity and patience, since not only are we taking advantage of their hospitality, but my brother Charles and his family were doing the same, as were numerous relatives and friends. But my parents seemed to encourage these visits. Of course this was not always a one way street. We did reciprocate by accommodating my parents with their visits on Christmas and Easter.
Our Christmases are beginning to be more fulfilling what with all the preparation. Our custom with all of the children was that Santa Claus brought and decorated the Christmas Tree plus all of the gifts. This made for quite a joyful surprise on Christmas morning when the children arose (usually at 5:00 AM). But at this point in time I don’t know how we did it physically. To get the children to bed, bring in the tree from its hiding place, decorate it, get the gifts out of hiding, and still get a few hours sleep, is still unbelievable today when it takes us a week just to put up and decorate the tree.
Our Ridgefield Drive neighbors consisted almost entirely of World War II veterans. All in the same boat financially. All living in their first home. All mortgaged to the hilt, and all eager to rear families. We were doing our bit to add to the population when we found in early 1952 that our family was to expand. On October 27, 1952 our third child, and second daughter, Jennifer Lynn was born. We were really beginning to fill up our house. There was the fun of Christmas, of course, and the egg hunts in our yard on Easter, and the birthday parties.
The tradition was that on the first birthday, the birthday child received an icing laden cake to totally destroy. Jay seems to have done the best job on his. In addition to completely messing up the icing, the cake was pushed to the floor (we have a movie record of this), and Jay laughing about the terrific job he had done. Patty and Jenny were a little more discrete and lady like in the destruction of their cakes (this is also recorded on movie film).
We were now beginning to enlarge on our Cleveland vacations. One year we spent part of the time with my mother and father and then part of the time at Lake Pymatuning (between Ohio and Pennsylvania). One of the big attractions was feeding the carp. I had never seen such large carp. The thing to do was get a loaf of stale bread, break the slices into pieces and then toss the pieces on the beach. The carp would come out of the water, wriggle onto the beach, get the bread, and then back into the water. The children got a big “bang” out of this.
Another venture from Cleveland was a visit to Niagara Falls. We drove to Buffalo, NY where we crossed the border into Canada. The Canadian Customs Officer was doing his usual bit, asking about us, where we were from, whether we were natural born citizens of the USA, how long we were going to stay, and whether we had anything to declare. I said that we didn’t, when from the back seat Jay said, “aren’t you going to tell him about the gold in the trunk?” I could have fallen through the floor. The Customs Officer calmly looked Jay in the eye, and said, “Son don’t you ever do that again”. He then permitted us to enter Canada. Other than that incident, we spent two enjoyable days visiting the falls, and all the sights around.
In early 1954 I determined that my employer, Samuel Hannaford & Sons was having a decreasing volume of business. It was a shame that a firm as old and as prominent as it was, would be having a decline in clientele. It was simply a case of not keeping up with the times. While I was there I was involved in projects at Holmes Hospital, University Hospital (then Cincinnati General Hospital), Jewish Hospital (Cincinnati), Drake Hospital (then County Hospital), plus hospitals in Barbarton, Ohio, Greensberg, NC, Greensboro, SC, and Gainsville, Georgia.
I enjoyed my association with the Hannaford firm, made a number of friends, but it was time to move on. I began perusing the classified ads in the newspapers. I found a firm called Ajax Construction Co. advertising for an architect. I submitted my resume, and subsequently received a response requesting an interview. I was interviewed in the home of the firms president, Carl Sinnige, who lived in Mt. Lookout, a Cincinnati suburb. I was hired on the spot and was to report for work in two weeks. I submitted my resignation to Eldridge Hannaford the president of Samuel Hannaford & Sons, who accepted it graciously, and wished me luck.
Beginning to work for Ajax meant we had to make a change in our lifestyle. We had one car, and public transportation was not available between Finneytown and Golf Manor, the location of the Ajax Construction Co.’s office. It meant that I must use our car daily, or in cases when Norma needed transportation she had to take me to the office and pick me up. Somehow it all worked out, since we couldn’t afford to buy or operate a second car.
Ajax Construction Co. was involved in institutional and commercial construction. The majority of its work was won on a competitive bidding basis. It was also involved in design/build projects. I was hired for this side of the business. I was involved in designing and preparing the construction documents for numerous small to medium sized remodeling and new construction projects. Some that come to mind are several A&P Supermarkets, Klosterman Baking Co., Tri-State Savings and Loan, St. Agnes Parish Convent (Lookout Heights, Kentucky), a school addition and rectory addition for St. Bernard Parish (Taylor Creek, Ohio), and an office and manufacturing plant for the Gardner Board and Carton Co. in Lockland, Ohio.
While at Ajax most of the office staff would eat lunch at various small restaurants around the Golf Manor and Roselawn area. One memorable lunch was at a small spot in Roselawn on Reading Road. The owner told us that he had recently acquired a franchise for a new fried chicken called Kentucky Fried Chicken. He introduced us to the developer of this new fried chicken, a distinguished gentleman in a white suit, white hair, white goatee and mustache, and with a black string tie. It was Col. Harlan Sanders. We all shook hands with him, never realizing that we had met the originator of what is now known as KFC.
In 1955 we decided that our house on Ridgefield Drive should be expanded to make it more livable. One thing that we missed was a porch. The house had a small covered “porch” in the front but not very usable. We began tossing about ideas, and I made sketches for a porch addition in the rear of the house. As time went on the ideas became more elaborate; from a bare porch, to a covered porch, to a partially enclosed porch, to finally a room with a fireplace. The room, however, never lost its original name-“the porch.”
Finally I began construction in the Spring of 1956. With the help of Norma’s father, Martin Hessler, we excavated for the foundation footings, poured the footings, laid up the concrete block foundation, did all the carpentry work and roofing, installed windows, and even laid up the brick fireplace and chimney. I had told our neighbors that I expected to build a fire in the fireplace by Thanksgiving of that year. I accomplished the feat although the room was far from completed. The room was completed in the Spring of 1957, and we enjoyed the use of it until we sold the house.
In mid 1958 we realized that we would be expecting our fourth child, and on February 5, 1959 our third daughter, Susan Elizabeth, was born. Jay, Patty, and Jenny were in St. Vivian School, so I knew that a new baby in our family it would make for a busy time for Norma, having to get three youngsters off to school - getting them dressed, fed, lunches packed, and seeing them off to the school bus, but it all worked out. I will say that the younger children were a big help with the household chores, particularly Patty, who at even a young age was able to help with the cooking.
I had never pursued a professional registration after I graduated from UC. Through the prodding of Norma and Carl Sinnige, I finally decided in the Spring of 1959 to take the examination in Columbus, Ohio, for registration in Architectural Engineering. I spent two days in Columbus taking the examination with many others who were attempting registration in many disciplines. In the late summer of 1959 I received word that I had passed the examination, which was a relief, but the great surprise was that I had received the highest grade that year in the architectural engineering examination. On September 22, 1959 I received my certificate of registration in Columbus, Ohio.
Obtaining a registration as a professional engineer began to pay off almost immediately. In early 1960 I was promoted to Vice-president of Ajax and was assigned a company car. This now made us a two car family, and returned to Norma the freedom of movement that she had when I worked for Hannaford’s. It also helped out with the budget in that the gasoline and maintenance on the second car was paid for by the company which was providing me with transportation to and from work.
Also in 1959 the company was doing some speculative design work for a person who had political connections in Frankfort, Kentucky. Since we were not to be compensated in any way, this person arranged for both Carl Sinnige and I to be commissioned as Kentucky Colonels. At the time we considered this to be quite an honor, but later found that these commissions were given regularly by the governor.
In early 1961 we realized we would be blessed with our fifth child. This pregnancy presented us with a dilemma. Either we expand the house, or we move to a larger house. I opted for the expansion route, since we could have easily expanded upward, with either two or three bedrooms and a bath on the second floor. Norma was not too receptive to that idea, since the expansion would not only have made our house the largest house on the street, but it would have been out of scale with the rest of the neighborhood. The other houses were similar to ours; two and three bedroom, single story ranch style homes. Instead Norma opted for a larger home, preferably new, and in the Finneytown area.
In retrospect I must agree that she was right. Having a car available enabled her to visit various housing developments in the area. On the weekends Norma and I would visit the areas she thought might have possibilities. For various reasons each was eliminated, but then one night I came home from work and Norma told me that she had found the place. It was a new development north of Galbraith Road and east of Daly Road in Finneytown. The area was called Brentwood Heights. The developer had built three model homes on Daly Road, consisting of a split level house and two ranch style houses. But the developer had plans to build larger four bedroom, two story, homes as the project grew.
After reviewing the sketch drawings and outline specifications we decided we were interested in the purchase of a four bedroom, two and one half bath room, center hall colonial design house. Our specification was that it must have a two car garage and a fireplace in the living room. We viewed available lots, but our specification for a two car garage eliminated all but one - a corner lot at the intersection of Foxcroft and Fernwell Drives. We agreed on this lot and signed the purchase agreement.
With the new baby expected to be born in August, we were pressed into action. We had to make a number of decisions - brick color, roofing color, ceramic tile colors for the bath rooms, bath room fixtures, kitchen cabinets, flooring and paint colors, etc. In addition we had to sell our present house, and of course hopefully the new house would be completed on time. We contracted with a Realtor to sell our house on Ridgefield Drive. The house was sold in less than three weeks. We closed on the sale in early July and moved into our new home on August 8, 1961.
On August 31, 1961 our fourth daughter, Mary Louise was born, a little over three weeks after we had moved into 8444 Foxcroft Drive. We now had two families in the house; three children in grade school - Jay in the eighth grade, Patty in the fifth, Jenny in the third, and two infants. The older children were a big help to us during this period. I would want to think that all of our children enjoyed us all, and each other, as a family.
We did many things together, especially vacations. The children were involved in outside activities; Jay was in the Cub Scouts, Boy Scouts, and Explorer Scouts. Patty and Jenny were involved in the Brownies. Norma was a Den Mother, and I was a Scout Leader. Jay took guitar lessons, Patty and Jenny studied the piano. Many of these lessons were held on Saturday in Mt. Healthy and North College Hill, which made the weekends somewhat hectic. Susan took ballet and possibly this contributed to her interest in music and theater. Mary Lou studied the piano for quite a few years, with an instructor coming to our house, and then study at the College Conservatory of Music at the University of Cincinnati.
Vacations were a must in the Summer. We traveled to many places although not necessarily with all of the children at the same time. We traveled to the Smokie Mountains, Colonial Williamsburg, Washington DC, the upper peninsula of Michigan, Mackinac Island, Lake Placid, upper New York State and the Finger Lakes, Disney World, Yellowstone Park, Rocky Mountain National Park, Salt Lake City, and many other places too numerous to mention - each with their own memories.
Some bring back vivid memories. One in particular was a vacation to Lake Manestique in the upper peninsula of Michigan. We rented a log cabin on the lake, which was in a compound of cabins owned by an architect friend of mine. The setting was beautiful, but the cabin had a few problems. The first night we had to put wood blocks under one side of the beds to keep from rolling out. The lake was crystal clear, you could walk out to shoulder depth and still see your feet. You could also see gobs of leeches. Fortunately we were able to avoid them, but some in other families were not as lucky. At sunset the mosquitoes moved in and it was impossible to enjoy the outdoors until well after dark. One of the things Patty and Jenny enjoyed most was horseback riding. This was something new and different for them. We did enjoy sticking our toes in the cold water of Lake Superior one day.
In 1963 I was beginning to see that the days of Ajax Construction Co, as a successful building contractor were numbered. The profits were always minimal, and were getting smaller, to the point that they were diminishing completely. The president, Carl Sinnige, and I constantly disagreed about the percentage of markup to add to our bid projects, I always wanted a larger markup, and he a smaller one. As a result of this, more of the work on which we were the successful bidder were losing money. I was unhappy and determined that I must find other employment. I did find other employment, albeit with a temporary employment company named H.L. Yoh & Associates. I was assigned to the Engineering Department of the Procter & Gamble Co.’s Ivorydale Technical Center (ITC).
With the exception of my last year or eighteen months with Ajax, my association with the company was very enjoyable. Some of the more memorable construction projects were; St. Xavier High School in Finneytown, the Alter Classroom Building on the Xavier University Campus, and the Notre Dame High School Building in Park Hills, Kentucky. These and other work helped to further my knowledge of construction and construction techniques.
I began my tenure at Procter & Gamble in the Spring of 1964, and knew from almost the first day that the job was not for me. The company regimentation was something that was foreign to me. The position did afford me some travel to other P&G locations, particularly Kansas City, Missouri, and Greenbay, Wisconsin. The company was quite generous with its travel allowances, and this was the only area where I felt that the regimentation did not apply. One would be criticized for not taking meals in the better restaurants, even if it meant taking a cab to get there. Before any trip I was always advised of where to eat.
Nevertheless it did provide employment and income while I searched out something more fruitful. For almost a year and a half I scanned the Classified ads weekly, submitting resumes, going on interviews, but nothing seemed to work out. Finally my response to an ad by the University of Cincinnati bore fruit. I was called in for an interview by the Director and Assistant Director of the Department of Physical Plant of the University. Throughout the interview I felt that this was the place for me. In less than a week after the interview I was offered the position of New Construction Planning Assistant.
The biggest problem was the $3500 cut in annual pay. Norma and I discussed this and decided to tough it out, since the University had so many things to offer, and the foremost to us was the benefit of tuition remission. With five children to educate this was a tremendous benefit. Our immediate problem with tuition remission was that it would not apply to me until I had been with the University for five years, which was the rule at the time. Jay graduated from Finneytown High School in 1966, and that Fall enrolled in the University College at the University of Cincinnati. By the time Jay enrolled for his second year, the tuition remission rules were changed, and all administrative staff (in which I was included) were to receive immediate tuition remission. This was a terrific financial boost; almost the same as receiving a pay increase.
My father had retired from his position of Personnel Director with Dairy Pak in Cleveland, and in 1964 he and my mother returned to Cincinnati. They purchased a new home in Mt. Airy, a Cincinnati suburb. It was nice having them closer to us.
Jay graduated from University College in June, 1968, with an Associate Degree in Arts. The following Autumn he enrolled in the College of Design, Architecture and Art (DAA) at the University of Cincinnati, majoring in architecture. He wanted to follow in his father’s footsteps. Jay was able to transfer most of his credits to DAA, but since the study of architecture is so structured it was necessary to make up a year of architectural design. This was accomplished by attending a summer school course in architectural design. For whatever reason the only university offering this course was the College of Architecture at the University of Oklahoma. Although it was tough for us financially (we did not want to borrow the money) we gladly paid the tuition, transportation, books, housing, and other expenses for this Summer course. We wanted to encourage him in his endeavors, even at the sacrifice of some of our other desires.
Norma’s mother died on February 28, 1969. She had spent the last years of her life in and out of various hospitals for what was diagnosed as depression and nervous disorder.
Patty graduated from Our Lady of the Angels High School in St. Bernard, Ohio in 1969. She applied for admission to and was accepted by the College of Nursing and Health at the University of Cincinnati. In her latter years of high school she expressed a desire to pursue a career in nursing. She was a volunteer “Candy Striper” at Good Samaritan Hospital in Cincinnati. She enjoyed the work, which only encouraged her desires. Patty enrolled in the College of Nursing and Health in the Autumn of 1969.
 Jenny graduated from Our Lady of the Angles High School in 1971. She applied for and was accepted by the College of Design, Architecture and Art at the University if Cincinnati. She selected Fashion Illustration as her major. Jenny enrolled in DAA in the Autumn of 1971.
The year 1971 was quite a busy one for us. Jay became engaged to Mary Alice Reindl, and on September 11, 1971 they were married at Mother of Sorrows Church in Roselawn, a Cincinnati suburb. Jay was having academic difficulties at the University at the time, and decided to withdraw. Because of the Viet Nam Conflict and its problems, Jay enlisted in the US Army Reserves, which helped with the military service requirements for the war. If he had been able to remain enrolled at the University he would have maintained his military deferment. Jay completed his basic training at Fort Polk in Louisiana, and then he remained in the Reserves until his discharge in October, 1977.
After the death of Norma’s mother, we would have her father to our house for dinner at least a couple evenings a week. We enjoyed his company, and I’m sure he enjoyed ours. Almost three years to the day, Dad Hessler died at Providence from a attack. His death occurred on February 22, 1972.
By 1972 Jenny had completed her Freshman year at DAA, and was ready to begin the College “co-op” program. In this program the student would alternate between school and work; i.e. attend classes for a quarter, and work in a related field for a quarter. Her first job was in New York City working for a fashion illustrator on Manhattan Island. Norma and I drove Jenny and a classmate of Jenny’s to New York to help them find housing. We accepted the hospitality of Norma’s sister, Sr. Therese Martin, and stayed in her “convent” in Brooklyn Heights while we scurried about looking for suitable housing.
We did manage to find what we perceived to be a proper place to live. It was a boarding house for women called Robert’s House on Manhattan Island. This was relatively close to where Jenny would be working, and also close to her classmate’s place of employment. We’re not too sure that Jenny or her friend quite accepted the environment, since on their second work quarter in New York they each found living quarters elsewhere.
The drive to and from New York was quite exciting, since it was made during the Saudi Arabian oil embargo, and the resultant rationing of gasoline. With prudent scheduling of driving dates we were able to complete the trip both ways with very little difficulty.
Jenny’s first trip to New York on her own was not without difficulty. She did not want to go by air, but rather insisted on going by Greyhound bus. None of us had any experience with long distance bus travel and just assumed that luggage would be handled as it would be on an airplane; that is transferred from bus to bus at transfer points. With bus travel that is not the way it is done, as Jenny found out when she got to New York. Her luggage was not on the bus on which she was traveling, nor could the Greyhound personnel tell her where it might be. They were totally uncooperative, and Jenny called us in a panic, and didn’t know what to do. We felt very helpless, with she being many miles from home. Phone calls to Greyhound were of no avail; in fact Greyhound felt that this was not their fault, but rather ours. Her luggage did arrive about two days later, but with no apology from Greyhound. Needless to say, Jenny has not ridden the Greyhound bus system again.
Jenny continued with her co-op job in New York for two more work quarters, and then began a co-op job with US Shoe in Cincinnati. In the meantime, Jay, now married and having completed his military basic training wanted to re-enroll at UC and continue his desire to achieve his degree in Architecture. He was accepted for re-enrollment and began classes in the Autumn of 1972. Patty had completed two years at the College of Nursing and Health when she became disillusioned with the program. She was totally unhappy and decided to withdraw, and enter the nurses training program at Good Samaritan Hospital. Patty completed the program in the Summer of 1973 and immediately took the examination for Registered Nurse (RN) in Columbus, Ohio. She began her nursing practice at Providence Hospital in Cincinnati.
In the Spring of 1974 we felt that the oppressive Summer heat in this area had gotten to be too much. We had tried window fans, and room fans, but nothing did a job of cooling in the hottest “dog days” of Summer. We decided to “bite the bullet” and have central air-conditioning installed. We are convinced that it was money well spent, and often wonder how we got along without it as long as we did. One disadvantage is that it certainly isolates one from ones neighbors.
In early 1974 Patty became engaged to Mark Crone and on August 30, 1974 Patty and Mark were married at St. Vivian Church in Finneytown. In 1976 both Jay and Jenny graduated from UC, Jay with a degree of Bachelor of Architecture, and Jenny with a degree of Bachelor of Arts in Fashion Design. Within a year of her graduation from UC, Jenny decided that it was time to leave “the nest”. She had acquired an apartment on Montgomery Road in Pleasant Ridge. Our household was slowly getting smaller.
By 1977 Susan had graduated from Our Lady of the Angels High School and that Autumn enrolled in the University of Cincinnati. She was in the McMicken College of Arts and Sciences, majoring in Speech and Theater Arts. In 1978 Mary Lou had graduated from Ursuline Academy in Blue Ash and that Autumn enrolled the McMicken College of Arts and Sciences, majoring in Chemistry and Biology. While in high school Mary Lou had expressed a desire to be a physician and was orienting her studies accordingly.
I had heard that an organization called the Radio Reading Service was looking for volunteers. This organization broadcast daily, reading newspapers and magazines to the blind subscribers who had special radio receivers. My uncle, Fred Beck, who was my mothers brother, was suffering from macular degeneration, and was slowly losing his sight. Because of his condition, I decided to audition for the position of volunteer reader. I passed the audition and began reading portions of the Sunday Enquirer each Sunday from noon until 1:00 PM. I convinced Uncle Fred to become a subscriber, and I continued reading weekly for two years.
On May 2,1979 I received a telephone call at my office from Norma telling me that my mother had died. She and my father had been working in their yard, and both came into the house for rest and a little nap. My mother had died in her sleep, which was an awful shock to my father, and to the rest of the family.
Jay and Mary Alice had their first child, a daughter, on September 21, 1979. She was named Alicia Marie. Jay and Mary Alice were now living in a condominium in a complex called Today Homes, in Fairfield, Ohio. Alicia was our first grandchild, and grand daughter.
In June, 1981, Susan received her Bachelor of Arts degree from the University, and on October 10, 1981 she and John David Koza were married at the Cathedral of St. Peter in Chains, in Cincinnati. John was from Cleveland, Ohio and as expected Susan and he moved there into an apartment. John was associated with the Bond Court Hotel in Cleveland, and because of this association John was able to afford us with “free” hotel accommodations whenever we would visit them.
In 1982 Mary Lou graduated from UC, and received her Bachelor of Science degree. In her Junior year at UC, Mary Lou was elected to Phi Beta Kappa national honorary society. It was quite a thrill for us, but I’m not too sure how it affected Mary Lou. Mary Lou applied for admission to the UC College of Medicine; we had also visited Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland, but she decided to not apply for admission there. She received approval of her application to UC, and began her Freshman year on the Autumn of 1982. After four years of concentrated diligent work, Mary Lou graduated in the Spring of 1986 with her Doctor of Medicine degree. She had applied for her residency training at the Washington Hospital Center in Washington, DC. She was accepted and began her residency in the Summer of 1986.
Norma and I went to Washington with her to help find an apartment which might be relatively close to the hospital. One lead after another turned out to be a disappointment. We finally found the “right one” in Greenbelt, Maryland, which turned out to be about a 30 minute drive through suburban streets to the hospital. Everyone was well pleased with this apartment (a high rise) and its location, given the Washington environment. After returning home we made the necessary arrangements to move her furniture to her new apartment. Although the quantity of furniture was sparse, it was at least sufficient for Mary Lou to begin a new life.
On April 27, 1985 Jay and Mary Alice had their second child, a son, John Michael. John Michael became the first son, of the first son, of the first son, of the first son, and as it will turn out, the only one of his generation to carry on the Reese name. Jay and Mary Alice are now living on Hunter Road in Fairfield, Ohio, in a home which Jay designed.
On April 27, 1986, one year after John Michael was born Patty and Mark were able to adopt an infant son. This joyous occasion happened only after a long struggle with various adoption agencies. Their new son is named Raymond Martin. Patty and Mark were now living in Guilford, Indiana in a house they literally built by themselves. The house was on thirteen acres of land between Guilford and Dover.
On February 20, 1987 my father died. He was in Clovernook Nursing Home in North College Hill. My father’s problems had begun a few years previous. He became ill with pneumonia and was admitted to Providence Hospital and later to the nursing home. When he was admitted to the nursing home he was so weak that he had lost his ability to walk. With the help of physical therapy and a lot of determination he regained his strength, was able to walk again, and was able to return to his home. He hired a housekeeper, primarily to help with the cooking.
He got along fine until he fell while in the basement. He had broken his kneecap and was taken to Providence Hospital for surgery. Because of his diabetic condition the surgery would not heal. My father turned down amputation as a possible solution, and as a result gangrene slowly had its effect.
Mary Lou and Timothy Dale Inwood were married on May 9, 1987 at St. Vivian Church in Finneytown. They both moved to Mary Lou’s apartment in Greenbelt, Maryland while Mary Lou continued her residency at the Washington Hospital Center. Mary Lou completed her residency in 1989, and after interviewing for positions at about four locations, decided to accept an offer of a partnership with a group practice in Wilmington, Ohio. Tim and Mary Lou purchased a home south of Wilmington on Old State Road.

