It’s an odd feeling to learn so much about family you’ve known for decades. My grandfather, John James Reese – known as Jack by friends and family – was a strong but modest man, and his loving wife Norma Agnes (Hessler) Reese was ever faithful. Together, they truly lived the American Dream, traveling the world and building a rich foundation of memories for their children. Yet, I never knew much of this beyond their collection of knick-knacks and books in their living room.
Upon Jack’s tragic passing in 2006, and tasked with wiping his computer for donation, I discovered their memoirs and preserved a copy. Much of the original formatting of these documents was since lost due to old file formats, unrecoverable beyond bare text with modern software. Many years later, and with Norma in Heaven with him, it was in these documents that I’ve finally come to know my grandparents for who they really were.
From stories of the Great Depression and World War II to parenting five children  and cherishing their large (and growing) family, from road trips upstate to vacations around the globe, they truly appreciated their fortune and family. I regret that I never had the chance to know them then as I know them now. Altogether, their memoirs and genealogical records span almost two hundred years of history, going all the way back to ancestors born in Germany in the early 1800’s.
With this work, I’m attempting to finally do justice to their memories. Raw text was recovered from preserved documents, and lightly edited to correct spelling and missed punctuation. I’ve organized content into chapters, and broken up longer paragraphs to improve readability, all while trying to maintain my grandparents’ voice and writing style.
This book is for their children, their grandchildren, their great-grandchildren, and for future generations, so that their memories may live once more.
May they truly rest in peace.

- John Michael Reese, first son of John Carlton Reese, first son of John James Reese, first son of Charles H. Reese, first son of John Henry Reese, first son of  Frederick Theodore Ries.
