The following genealogy of the Reese and Hessler families is the result of individual research on the part of John J. Reese, Cincinnati, Ohio, and Melvin A. Hessler, Lancaster, Pennsylvania.
Research into the genealogy of the Reese Family indicates that the family surname was not as currently spelled. The surname prior to c. 1870 was spelled RIES. This is supported by Civil War enlistment papers of one Theodore Ries, discovered in family effects in 1987. Deed records of 1871 in the Union County Courthouse, Liberty, Indiana, indicate REES, and in 1874 indicate REES and REESE. Additionally an old photograph of Theodore’s three sisters indicates that they used the surname REESE.
Research into the origin of the family surnames indicate that both Ries and Hessler have Germanic origins.
The Ries surname can be traced back to the fourteenth century, and as in most cases there are several possibilities as to its origin, One possibility is that the surname was derived from a fathers first name. Another is that the surname had its origin in where the person once lived. The German word “ris” is translated to mean “thicket”, and might have denoted a person who lived in or near a thicket. Several villages or towns in Germany are named “Ries”, and the origin could have been with the people coming from that town. Finally the surname could have been derived from the German word “rise”, which is interpreted to mean “giant”, and may have referred to a very tall person. Germanic variants on the surname “Ries” are: Riess, Reis, Ris, Riese, Rys and Ryss. All could have the same origin.
The surname Hessler can also be traced back to the fourteenth century. Again the name could have come from one of several sources: fathers first name, from where a person lived, or from the name of a town in which a person lived. The preference of the local Hessler families is that near Krombach, Bavaria there is a stand of hazel trees, and name Hessler is interpreted to mean “one who lives near the hazel(tree) grove”. The earliest Hessler (Adam) traceable, lived in or near Krombach, Schollkripen, Bavaria, Germany. Germanic variants of the name “Hessler” are: Hess, Heseler, Hesseler, Hesslers, and Hesselers.

