Grade School
After Kindergarten I attended primary school at St. James School, then located at the corner of South Cooper Avenue and Crescent Street in Wyoming, Ohio. The school, its adjacent church and rectory do not exist any more. The school, church and rectory operations were relocated to new facilities on Springfield Pike in Wyoming.
When I began at the "old school" it was a two story brick structure. There were four classrooms on the first floor and an auditorium on the second. A double set of stairs connected the first and second floors. The basement was divided into two parts; one side for girls , the other side for boys. The basement was our indoor play area during inclement weather. Toilet facilities were also located in the basement. Up until my fifth grade the four classrooms each contained two grades. After that two classrooms were incorporated into the second floor because of expanding enrollment.
There were no school buses in those days, particularly for urban or suburban school districts. School buses were only used in the rural areas. The parents of about six students on Westview Avenue contracted with a local taxi company to transport us to and from school.. This lasted until about the fifth or sixth grade, at which time we all began to walk to school, a distance of about one and one half miles.
When I was in the fifth or sixth grade a Boy Scout troop was formed at St. James. I joined the troop and advanced up through the ranks to First Class Scout. I don’t remember going any further. Most of the activity was involved in meetings at the school, however one activity does stand out in my mind. We made a summer trip to Indian Lake here in Ohio. Father Leo Walsh, our parish priest made arrangements to rent a cabin at the lake, and took the entire troop (at least those who wanted to go) for a week of “camping”. It was fun, and it was the first time that I had spent time away from home.
There was a deserted house down the road from our cabin, which we were told by Fr. Walsh was haunted. He offered $5.00 to anyone who would spend the night in that house. There were a few who said that they would not be afraid to spend the night, but as darkness fell the number of brave scouts fell to zero. So much for the “tough guys”.
Our family did not own a car until about 1928, and the first car was a 1927 Buick sedan. Prior to that time we walked or rode the bus or street car for our visits. Having a car gave us a lot of flexibility, and the best of all it enabled us to take family vacation trips out of state. I well remember those trips to Devils Lake in Michigan, which were made in 1929, 1930 and 1931; the Chicago Worlds Fair in 1934; the Smokie Mountains in 1936; Lake Winnebago in Wisconsin in 1937; Lake George in Indiana in 1938; Higgins and Houghton Lakes in Michigan in 1939; Michigan and Macanac Island in 1940; and the grand finale pre war trip to the Black Hills, Yellowstone Park, and the Teton Mountains.
The Chicago Fair was simply fantastic. One exhibit demonstrated the complete manufacture and assembly of an automobile, including painting and pin striping. Another was of the latest electrical wizardry of the time. The lines to the exhibit buildings were long, and we probably spent more time waiting than we spent in the exhibit. One in particular that I remember was the City of Tomorrow. It indicated many high rise buildings, and a thing called “expressways”, with automobiles speeding about, through interchanges, and overhead road systems. Something unbelievable at the time, but quite commonplace today. Another experience was riding the “L”, the rapid transit system of day, and quite different from the Cincinnati “street cars”.
My mother and father were always generous on these vacations in that often my maternal grandmother (Elizabeth Beck), or my paternal grandmother and grandfather (Elizabeth and John H. Reese) accompanied us. I don’t remember how all of us managed to stuff ourselves (plus luggage) into any of our cars. Those early automobiles did not have the trunk storage space as the cars of today. The luggage was stuffed into the small rear storage and on the left running board secured with an expandable luggage rack. This meant that you got into and out of the car only on the right side. Another inconvenience (compared to today) was the lack of air conditioning. We rode with all of the windows down, and of course the driver stood out in a crowd. The driver always had a sunburned left arm, since one always drove with the left arm resting on the window sill.
I will always remember the good times that we had during the summer. Up the Ohio River from Cincinnati was a park called Coney Island. This was an amusement park, beautifully landscaped, with roller coaster rides, ferris wheel, carrousel, games, and the usual picnic grove. Most people reached this park by river boat. These boats ran on a regular schedule from Cincinnati to Coney Island, and return. There were two boats running these trips, the Island Queen, and a smaller boat, the Island Maid. The Island Queen had a capacity of about 4000 people, and the Island Maid possibly 2500 people, The passage on the boats and admission to the park was about 25 cents, or on special promotions only ten cents per person. That sounds cheap today, but at the time it was ordinary.
We would visit the park possibly twice a year. Our mother would pack a picnic basket with food and lemonade, we (our mother and my brothers) would hop on a street car, ride to downtown Cincinnati, walk down Broadway to the Public Landing at the river, and enjoy the boat ride to Coney. Before leaving the landing the boat Captain would give a long blast on the boat whistle, and it was always funny to watch families running down to the river at the last minute to catch the boat. When we would arrive at Coney we would find a picnic table, plop down our picnic basket, spread out a table cloth on the table, and that was a sign that the table was reserved. Quite different from today. Sometimes we would return on one of the boats, or on occasions our father would drive to the park after work, join us, and we would all go home in the family car.
Trips to the Zoo were another summer pleasure. At least one of the trips had to be during the Food and Home Show. Admission to the Zoo was only ten cents per person, and at some of the exhibitors booths there would be free food (very small samples), and it was a game to see home many samples you could get. Turtle soup was always a favorite. The process was the same as Coney Island; pack a picnic basket, catch a street car to the Zoo, reserve a picnic table, and visit all the cages of animals. These were simple pleasures, but at the time great adventures.
Our family was very fortunate during the Great Depression. My father was never unemployed during that time, although he suffered a few pay reductions. In those days everything was a luxury, including those things that today we would consider necessities. There were so many poor families during the Depression that you didn’t realize that you were poor unless you were destitute. We never “ate out”, movies were an occasional Sunday Matinee; since the costs were considerably less. Possibly every month or six weeks Dad would purchase a nickel candy bar and it would be divided five ways. Not a very big piece, but it was a real treat. Of course you must remember that a nickel candy bar was considerably larger than a candy bar today. This sounds like an exaggeration but it really is true.
Those today who did not experience the Depression do not realize the difficult times many people suffered. Imagine what it would be like to be unemployed for two or three years, with no income, no welfare, no food stamps, but only the charity of family, friends and neighbors to keep ones family housed, fed and clothed. It was a time that I would hope that this country will never have to suffer through again. Once you were poor you would never forget it, and you would always prepare yourself should those times of serious depression ever return. This is something that I wish more people would practice.
Across the street from our house was a large field. This open field was our playground for football, baseball, kite flying, and just general fun. Each year the local American Legion Post sponsored an Easter egg hunt in this field. On Easter morning we kids would sit at our second floor bedroom window watching the eggs being placed. We thought that this would give us the advantage, since we saw where the eggs were being hidden. Of course things never worked out as we had planned, and we never seemed to get any more eggs than anyone else; and never one of the prize eggs.
My brother, Charles, and I were in to building model airplanes. These were from kits which we bought from the local “ten cent store” (for ten cents). The kits were made of balsa wood, a very light weight wood. We would assemble the planes, carefully following the plans and instructions, using a fast setting glue to hold the pieces together. The glue was called “airplane dope”. The final phase was to cover the frame or skeleton of the plane with a thin paper, called Chinese rice paper. The paper was stretched fairly tight over the frame and then wet with a fine mist of water. As the paper dried it would shrink tightly over the frame, then it could be painted or decorated as you wished. These planes were models of the propeller driven, open cockpit type that were prevalent in the late 1920’s and early 1930’s. The propellers of the models were driven by rubber bands within the plane. To fly the plane you had to wind the propeller, tightening the rubber bands, let it loose, and hope that it would fly and not crash. Of course there were many more crashes than flights.
Some of my early childhood memories were of our visits to my grandparents, both my maternal grandmother in Cumminsville, and my paternal grandparents in Wyoming. When visiting during the summer months we all sat out on the front porch of either of the grandparent’s house, speaking to neighbors strolling along the front walk, watching the bats fly around the street light, and swinging a smoldering piece of string to ward off the mosquitoes. Once in a while a couple of the men would walk to a local saloon to get a can of beer to better enjoy the warm summer evening.
During the winter we would all gather around the “pot bellied stove” in the kitchen. The visits on the big holidays were always important. Thanksgiving and Christmas dinners were big events. I will always remember the homemade noodles made by my Grandma Beck. She would carefully roll out the dough on a marble slab on the kitchen table, cut it into noodles, and set them out to dry. And she made some of the best dumplings you ever tasted, light and fluffy. It seems that we visited one or the other of our grandparents every other week. Before my family purchased its first car, the visits to Cumminsville were by streetcar, or we walked to Wyoming to visit my Grandma and Grandpa Reese.
I remember my Grandpa Reese as being a great story teller. Some of his stories were from his bridge building days, and were ones that held our rapt attention, even though we had heard them many times before; like the time he had the cook buy lima beans, and the crew ate the beans one day, and the shells the next day. Or the story of the train full of homing pigeons, that would slow down every night because the pigeons would roost and add to the weight, but during the day they were flying about, enabling the train to go faster. Weird but we still laughed.
A friend of mine was a great Indian relic hunter. He had quite a large collection of arrow heads and stone tomahawk heads, one of which was supposed to be the largest ever found in this area. He lived in the Wyoming, Ohio area, and seemed to have no trouble finding arrow heads. This led me to believe that they were quite abundant in the area. Each Spring after the farmer had plowed his field near the Mill Creek, we used to spend days searching this field for arrow heads. We did this for a number of years, but never did we find what we were looking for. I guess the Mill Creek bottoms was not a hunting or camping grounds for any Indians...

