High School
After graduation from “grade school” I attended Roger Bacon High School in St. Bernard, Ohio. Transportation to and from school was by street car. The ride from Lockland to St. Bernard took about forty five minutes, and since the street car was loaded with high school students from Roger Bacon (all boys) and Our Lady of Angels High School (all girls), it made for a boisterous ride.
During my high school days I never seemed to be able to get interested in extracurricular activities, although there was no lack of opportunity. In retrospect I wish that I had been pushed or encouraged to get involved in something. I guess I was not what you would call a “joiner”. Possibly it was genetic, since neither of my brothers were involved in any extracurricular activities either. Although my brother, Charles, was drum major for the Roger Bacon Band for a couple years. I would guess that to be “extracurricular”. I never had a great desire to get involved in team sports, although we neighborhood kids were always playing baseball or football. I did enjoy being a spectator and enjoyed attending as many high school football and basketball games that I could. I often wonder whether today’s high school student would attend many sporting events if public transportation were the only means of getting there. At the time transportation was a minor challenge. All one needed was the time and the car fare.
My social life in High School was not very exciting, in fact I almost developed a dislike for the female of the species. Let me give you an example: I was dating a young lady who attended Our Lady of Angels High School. One day she asked to borrow my camera. After a few days she returned the camera, and asked if I would mind having the film developed for her. When I picked up the film from the processor I found there to be photos of her and who turned out to be her “new” boyfriend. I guess this was her message to me to not bother coming around any more. There are other similar stories, but I won’t go into the details.
It seems that, no different from today, a car as a means of transportation was critical to obtaining a date. No self respecting high school girl would ever consent to going on a date on a street car, and that was my only option, even after I was old enough to have a drivers license. My parents always seemed reluctant to let me use the family car for a date, since as they would so often say, “We always rode the street car, so why can’t you.” So it was group activities with others who were in the same boat as me. Some of the group activities included roller skating at one of the roller rinks in Cincinnati, school dances at either Roger Bacon or Our Lady of Angels High School, and at least an annual “moonlight” cruise on the Island Queen. Of course all of our transportation was by streetcar or bus, so it was always a challenge to make sure that one did not miss the last bus or streetcar
This is not to say there was no neighborhood fun. During the Summer there were make-up baseball games, and in the Fall there were football games. No winners or losers, just plain fun. During the winter it seems the Mill Creek was always frozen. (I know that it’s not true, but it’s like most exaggerated stories of one’s youth.) It seems we were ice skating all the time, and of course there was always snow on the ground. One particular Winter a group of us were sledding on a hill near the Mill Creek. The path was between two trees about one third the way down the hill. It was night time and no lights. I had negotiated the hill a few times, but the last time I slammed into one of the trees. It knocked me out, and when I woke I found it was difficult to breathe and walk. My friends laid me on a sled and hauled me home. The next day our doctor said I had broken two ribs, in addition to bruises. I remained taped up for what seemed like the rest of the Winter.
During summer vacation after my first year of high school, I managed to find a job with a small “truck farmer” in Wyoming, Ohio. I arose at about five in the morning, ate breakfast, and rode my bicycle to the farm, arriving about six, and immediately go to work. This was strictly manual labor, planting , hoeing, weeding and harvesting the crops. It was “stoop” labor, but it kept me physically fit, and provided me with some spending money. I think on a good week I may have earned about eight dollars. There were also times of mowing, raking, and gathering hay from the fields to be stored in the loft in the barn. That was the most back breaking job that I remember. And in the heat of the summer it was miserable.
The same farmer had a truck route (then called a “huckster” route) on which he sold produce from door to door all year around. I also worked with him on the route each Saturday throughout the year. For this twelve hour day I received one dollar. This lasted through my junior year in high school, when I finally decided that I had enough.
