Post War
I re-entered the University of Cincinnati in the Spring quarter of 1946, and it was as if I had never left. Everyone (the males that is) was back from the war. Shortly after my return to classes I was tapped to join Scarab, an honorary architectural fraternity. It was a thrill with quite an impressive initiation ceremony at the Hotel Alms.
Shortly after returning to civilian life, I felt that I really deserved my first automobile. After all I was almost 25 years old and I felt that I knew pretty much about driving. A lot different than today when one must have one’s own car by the time one reaches 16 years of age. A new (1946) car was almost impossible to buy, since all automobiles had been manufactured for the military for four years, and there was a tremendous backlog of potential buyers. I finally found a used 1941 Chevrolet sedan for which I paid the owner about the same amount that he had paid when it was new, about $900. Nevertheless it provided me with necessary transportation.
About this time I broke up with a young lady whom I had dated and corresponded with during my stint in the military. She informed me that all during our dating; which was primarily while on furlough during my military experience, and all of our correspondence; she was really engaged to someone else. I felt that I had been used. I had similar experiences in dating during high school, and my early years in college, and I felt that dating was one bad experience after another.
Through the efforts of friends I obtained a blind date with Norma Hessler of Mt. Healthy, Ohio. We spoke on the phone a number of times prior to that first date. I almost felt that I knew Norma even before meeting her. Our first date was almost a disaster. It was on June 15, 1946, a particularly warm summer night. We went with mutual friends to an establishment called Alpine Inn Restaurant in the Cheviot area of Cincinnati. It was a place to gather with friends for food, to talk, dance and have a beer or two.
During the course of the evening a tipsy sailor spilled a glass of beer down Norma’s back. I don’t recall many details after that except that I thought that this was the end of what otherwise would have been a lovely evening. Apparently it was not as bad as I had thought, for that first date was followed with another date the next day, Sunday, for swimming at Phillip’s pool in Westwood. It was love at first sight, for Norma and I dated regularly from then on. For the first time I felt that I was not being used by someone so as to attain another goal. It was true love.
In December of 1946 I asked Norma to be my wife and she agreed. I presented her with an engagement ring on Christmas. From that point on it was a whirlwind of activity, what with preparing scholastically for my graduation from the University, setting a wedding date, Norma arranging for a wedding dress, getting bridesmaids resolved, and arranging for a reception hall.
On June 6, 1947 I graduated from the University with a degree of Bachelor of Science in Architecture. After graduation I maintained a job that I held as a co-op student, with the firm of Burton-Rogers located in Bond Hill, a suburb of Cincinnati. This firm designed and constructed large displays for conventions. It was interesting work but not much pay.
Norma and I had originally set our wedding date for June 14, 1947 at Assumption Church in Mt. Healthy. We were advised by the parish priest, Father Sieve, that the date was already reserved. We then chose the date of July 5, 1947. Two weeks before our wedding Father Sieve informed us that because of a family conflict (his nephew was to be married the same day) he would not be able to preside at our wedding, but that he would arrange for a Franciscan priest to perform the ceremony. This of course was a huge disappointment especially to Norma and her parents, since they were long time parishioners of Assumption Church. We told him that with his permission we would see if my parish priest, Rev. Leo M. Walsh from St. James Church in Wyoming, Ohio could marry us. Father Walsh heartily agreed, and our wedding took place as scheduled.
The wedding; a beautiful ceremony; occurred at Assumption Church with a church full of relatives and friends. The witnesses were my brother Charles H. Reese, Jr., my cousin Robert N. Reese, Norma’s cousin Marie Grace Hessler from Detroit, Michigan, and two dear friends of Norma’s, Mary Rodden and Mary Cowles. After a wedding breakfast at the home of Norma’s parents, the wedding party traveled by limousine to Dayton, Ohio to visit Norma’s sister who was a nun at St. Elizabeth’s Hospital. Unfortunately her sister, Sr. Therese Martin Hessler was not permitted by her order, Sisters of the Poor of St. Francis, to attend the wedding Mass or any of the post wedding celebrations. Fortunately the rules are now greatly relaxed.
The wedding reception was held at the Mt. Airy Civic Center on North Bend Road in Mt. Airy. After the reception Norma and I left for our honeymoon. Our first night together was spent in the Mariemont Inn in Mariemont, Ohio. On Sunday morning after attending Mass and having breakfast we were on our way to Chicago, where we spent two days visiting the sights, and at least one evening in the famous Trianon Ballroom dancing. Then it was on up through Wisconsin, where outside the town of Pulaski we had the misfortune of burning out a rod bearing on our car. We had to spend the night in a hotel in Pulaski, and between the cost of having the car repaired, and losing a day we were lucky to complete our trip. You must remember that these were the days before Visa, Master Card, American Express, or any of the other forms of “plastic” money. When you went on a trip, you carried cash with you, not “plastic” as is done today.
Nevertheless we drove on through Wisconsin and into the upper peninsula of Michigan. Coming down through Michigan we took a ferry, at the Straits of Mackinaw to Mackinac Island. While on the island we vowed that someday we would return for a stay at the Grand Hotel. We then toured down through Michigan and back home. Home for us at the time was a third floor apartment which we, through luck, had acquired at 1313 Greenup Street, in Covington Kentucky. Apartments at that time were very difficult to find due to the post war housing shortage. The location worked out fine in that I was able to drive Norma to her work location at the Revere Copper and Brass office in the Carew Tower in Cincinnati and I to Burton-Rogers, and then in the evening I would pick her up on the way back home.

