Retirement
I had submitted my resignation to the University in 1986, but was asked to stay for at least one more year. I was not enjoying my work any more. I had seen many administrative changes there, but the current staff had a totally different philosophy than what I had become used to. The University was not a family anymore. I finally decided that my absolutely last day would be June 30, 1987. My friends threw a great retirement party for me at the Alumni Center on the campus. About 75 of our closest friends attended the affair, which consisted of a fine dinner and a "roasting" by a few of my associates, all of which was captured on video tape. As a going away gift, I was presented with a beautiful black Alumni Association presentation rocker. The whole affair was wonderful, and very much appreciated.
I often recall my years at the University of Cincinnati as some of the best years of my life. The social life and the camaraderie of my fellow staff members was the best that I had ever experienced. I was involved in the greatest expansion ever of the physical facilities at the University, including the Clifton Campus, the Medical Center, and the branch campuses at Blue Ash, and Clermont County. I was involved in all aspects of design and construction, which included over $300,000,000 in construction expenditures.
A partial list of construction projects in which I was involved in both design and constructions follows: The Raymond Walters Branch Campus, in Blue Ash, Ohio, including the original building, its addition and Student Union. The Medical Science Building. Rhodes Hall. Zimmer Auditorium. The Langsam Library and Parking Garage. The Brodie Science Complex. Lindner Hall. Sander Hall (now razed). Holmes Hospital, its addition and remodeling. The Clermont County Branch Campus. The Geology/Physics Building. The Cincinnati Faculty Center. The Patricia Corbett Pavilion. Many remodeling and renovation projects.
Mary Lou and Tim, now settled in Wilmington, presented us with our fourth grandchild, a boy named James Granville, born November 9, 1992. Almost two years later, on October1, 1994 Mary Lou gave birth to a girl named Elizabeth Bashore, our fifth grandchild and second grand daughter.
Since my (or should I say “our”) retirement Norma and I have kept ourselves quite busy. We have done extensive traveling including annual visits with Patty, Mark, and Raymond who are now living in Port Orange, Florida. Port Orange is just West of Daytona Beach where Patty and Mark have a beach vehicle rental business. We also visit Susan and John who are now living in Salinas, California, which is about 15 miles East of Monterey and Carmel where both of them are employed. We have toured many of the US National Parks, the Northeast, the Canadian Rockies, a few Caribbean Cruises, and a very enjoyable tour of Italy and Capri, including a short visit to Switzerland. We pray that each of us remains healthy so that we are able to continue our travels, for there are many more places we would like to visit.
15 January, 1993
...
