World War II
On December 7,1941 the Japanese bombed Pearl Harbor in Hawaii and the United States entered World War II with the Allies (England and France) against the Axis (Japan, Italy and Germany). Many young men were being called up in the military draft; which actually began in 1940; to serve in the armed forces of the United States. The US Army and the Air Force had representatives on the campus of the University of Cincinnati soliciting enlistments. The story we were told was that if we enlisted we would have the opportunity to complete our education before having to serve in the military. This sounded like a good deal, so much so that many of us enlisted. I tried first to enlist in the Air Force, since that seemed to be the more glamorous. I failed the Air Force test because of my eyesight. I wore eyeglasses and the Air Force wanted only those who had 20/20 vision without eyeglasses. My next stop was the Army. On June 26, 1942 I enlisted in the Army with the expectation that I would be able to graduate before being called into active service.
In the summer of 1942 my family took the last vacation on which all five of us would participate. In the latter part of 1941 my father purchased a new car, a 1941 Buick Special, and this was used for an extended (three weeks) trip out west. We visited the Black Hills, Mt. Rushmore, the Badlands, Yellowstone Park, Teton National Park, and Salt Lake City and the Great Salt Lake. It was a glorious trip, one that I will never forget. Being twenty years old, and with a driver’s license, my father permitted me to share in the driving responsibilities during the trip. He probably regretted this decision, since I was driving in Utah through an area called Strawberry Valley, when I was picked up for speeding. I received quite a lecture from the highway patrolman, (but no ticket), and a corresponding lecture from my father, although he permitted me to continue with the shared driving.

On April 24,1943 I received the news from the Army that I was to report for active duty. In fact practically all the men in the class of 1944 at the University of Cincinnati were just about eliminated in one felled swoop. What a shock, only a year to go before graduation and the Army said, “we want you”. It was then that I found out that you never believe anything the Army tells you.
I reported to Fort Thomas, Kentucky on May 18, 1943 for my indoctrination and by May 31, 1943 I was on my way to Fort Belvoir, Virginia for my basic training in the Corps of Engineers. Strange to say, but I enjoyed my basic training and its discipline; and I was proud to be in the Engineers. Basic training lasted thirteen weeks, and at the end I received the usual two week furlough before receiving my next assignment; which I thought meant going over seas. After returning to Fort Belvoir I found that I had been accepted into the training cadre of Company A, First Battalion with the rank of Corporal. I now was a drill instructor to the next batch of recruits. In another thirteen weeks this recruit class was on its way, and I found myself with another promotion; this time to Sergeant. I now had the responsibility for an entire platoon with three Corporals under me. I was really coming up in the military world. I passed up the opportunity for officers candidate school, and to this day I don’t know why. After all my brother Charles was a Second Lieutenant in the Air Force. Two of my fellow sergeants were accepted into officers training, became second lieutenants and ended up in England.
In November, 1944 I received my orders to ship out. After a three week furlough at home, I reported to the Army embarkation center at Camp Reynolds, Pennsylvania. After a couple days of instructions and issuing of equipment we boarded the troop transport ship named the General Richardson. We left port at night, not having been told of our destination. There was much speculation as to where we were going to end up. Normally a trip across the Atlantic Ocean would be in convoy with Navy destroyer escort. Our ship was considered fast enough to go it alone. The constant fear was the possibility of German submarine attack.
The second day out in the Atlantic Ocean I became seasick. I had never been so sick in all my life. I didn’t think that I would ever recover, and wished that I would die. This lasted for about 24 hours, and after recovery the rest of the voyage went quite well.
There were about 2500 troops aboard our ship, living in very crowded conditions, and eating only two meals a day. The biggest problem was boredom. There was absolutely nothing to do, and one was lucky to find a place to sit. Even our meals were eaten standing up.
When we passed through Gibraltar into the Mediterranean Sea we were finally told that we were headed for Italy. After eleven days at sea we landed at the harbor of Naples. To call it a harbor was almost a misnomer. There were sunken ships all over, in fact our debarkation was on a foot bridge across at least two ships on there sides. We were transferred with our gear to a Fifth Army Replacement Depot which was located outside the town of Casserta. This was a “tent city”; acres of six man pyramidal tents. To offset boredom there were lots of close order drills, policing the area (that’s army talk for picking up bits of paper and cigarette butts); lots of army type stuff. Once in a while I managed to get a day pass into Casserta, which at least was a diversion.
After a few months a number of us were transferred to another replacement depot north of Rome near the city of Empoli. This was another tent city, and more of the same. I felt that this was a tremendous waste of time and I managed to get assigned to a two week course in Bailey Bridge design and construction. This was a wonderful diversion and at least I was doing something productive and educational.
The trouble was that it didn’t last too long, and it was back to the same old grind. About this time I heard that I could volunteer for the mail run from our camp to the front which was near the town of Modena. There were three of us; a driver, a guard and me (the boss-since a non-commissioned officer was required for the run). We drove up one day and back the next. It was a beautiful drive through Florence, Pistoia, and up through the mountains to Bologna. These trips gave me a wonderful opportunity to visit the architectural gems of Florence; the Cathedral, Baptistery, and Campanile, Ponte Vecchio and many of the wonders of this beautiful city. Once we made a detour through Pisa which afforded me a visit to the Cathedral and Baptistery, and most of all an opportunity to climb to the top of the Leaning Tower. This was an unbelievable experience; climbing the stone circular stairs in the interior of the tower to the top-coming out to a sloping surface which almost made one feel that one would fall off. I was able to visit the beautiful Cathedral in Milan, the Galleria (the predecessor of today’s shopping mall), and what was left of the partially destroyed La Scalla Opera
My sole “war story” during my short stint in Italy occurred on one of our “mail runs”. We were on our way north, through the mountains, on narrow roads when we were clipped by a “tank retriever”, (a semi-trailer used to bring disabled tanks back from the front for repair). The truck, with three of us in the cab (illegally by army standards) went off the road and down the side of the mountain, turning over a couple of times, and landed right side up. None of us was injured, I guess because we were wedged in the cab, and were wearing steel helmets. I climbed back up to the road and hitched a ride to our destination. I reported the accident, and the officer in charge was only interested in whether the mail was salvaged. That was the only thing that was important to him, not whether any was injured or possibly killed. I don’t think that the driver of the tank retriever even realized that he had hit us. The three of us managed to get together again, obtained another truck and returned to Empoli. The fact that we had wrecked an army vehicle was of no consequence, since people and equipment were expendable during war times. In fact we would pass this same spot many times later, and the wrecked truck was still on the side if the mountain. Who knows, it may still be there.
In May of 1945 the war in Europe ended and there was a big push to get the military home and discharged. This was done on a point system; the details of which elude me. Nevertheless I had not accumulated enough points for discharge. Much to my disappointment I was assigned to the 47th Quartermaster Graves Registration Co. This was primarily because of my training with the Corps of Engineers and some knowledge of surveying. Graves Registration was responsible for the layout of all military cemeteries and the interment of bodies.
About mid-July, 1945 I heard of an opportunity to take a trip to Switzerland. I immediately signed up, since the total cost for an all expense paid vacation was $35.00 (for ten days) plus a limit of an additional $35.00 in spending money. We couldn’t spend one night in a motel today for that much money. The trip was wonderful, fully escorted by a Swiss government representative. We visited Davos, Lucerne, St. Moritz, Einsiedeln, Brunnen, and Lugano. Switzerland is a beautiful, clean, and friendly country. We will return one day.
By mid August, 1945 our group received word to ship out to the Pacific Area. We boarded trucks with all our gear and were transported to the port of Leghorn (Livorno) to board our ship. We were boarding the troop ship Sea Cat, on August 15, 1945 when we received word that the war with Japan was over. An extra edition of the military newspaper, Stars and Stripes, was distributed. The front page had only three words; ITS ALL OVER.
Somehow the ship’s crew found a recording of “Lets Take the Long Way Home”, and played over and over on the ship’s PA system. Not necessarily a morale booster. There was a lot of speculation as to what would happen to us. Would we really go to the Philippines, or would we go to New York. At Gibraltar we were told to head for New York. This made for a lot of happy troops. Of course once again on the Atlantic Ocean I became seasick, but this time I knew that I wouldn’t die. While at sea I was promoted to Staff Sergeant.
After all of the necessary debarkation rituals, I received a one month furlough at home, with orders to report to Camp Lee, Virginia. After a wonderful month at home, it was back to reality and the army. It was necessary to deactivate the 47th Graves Registration Company. This was the usual army protocol of signing for this and signing for that, most of which I knew nothing about, or for equipment which was non-existent; but as the senior non-commissioned officer it became my responsibility.
Finally in late January, 1946, I received word to report to Fort Meade, Maryland to be discharged, and on February 1, 1946 I completed my obligation to the US Army.

